TITLE:
13th Beijing Xiangshan Forum to Be Held from Sept. 15 to 17: Defense Spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-27

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/V_251452/16481731.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 27 -- The 13th Beijing Xiangshan Forum will be held from September 15 to 17, 2026, at Beijing International Convention Center,said Senior Colonel Zhang Xiaogang, spokesperson for China's Ministry of National Defense (MND), at a regular press briefing on Thursday.
Under the theme "Build Consensus on Stability, Advance Security Governance Together", this year's forum will feature four plenary sessions on International Order and Strategic Stability, Localized Conflicts: Predicaments and Pathways to Resolution, Risks and Challenges to Security and Stability in the Asia-Pacific, and The Role and Vision of Developing Countries.
In addition, this forum will hold eight parallel sessions including Major-country Relations and Strategic Stability, Asian Approaches to Addressing Security Challenges, Sea Lane Security and Maritime Security Governance, Risks and Regulation of Military Applications of Emerging Technologies, and Trends in Outer Space Security Governance.
"The 4th China-Africa Peace and Security Forum will also be convened in conjunction with the Xiangshan Forum," the spokesperson added.
According to the spokesperson, the Beijing Xiangshan Forum will celebrate its 20th anniversary this year. Guided by the spirit of equality, openness, inclusiveness and mutual learning, the forum has evolved from a Track 2 exchange among defense think tanks into a major Track 1.5 platform for international security and defense dialogue. It serves to build consensus, deepen trust, and advance cooperation in global security governance and fostering a community with a shared future for humanity.
"We invite defense and military leaders, representatives of international organizations, and renowned scholars to join the forum as we mark its 20th anniversary and explore solutions to global security governance together," said the spokesperson.