TITLE:
China urges Japanese authorities to make clean break with militarism to win trust: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-02

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/V_251452/16483141.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun on Wednesday urged Japanese authorities to earnestly abide by the international obligations confirmed in the Japanese Instrument of Surrender, face up to history, make a clean break with militarism, and win the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international community through concrete actions.
Guo made the remarks at a regular media briefing when answering a question about China's position on the "Enemy State Clauses" in the UN Charter.
On Sept. 2, 1945, the Japanese government formally signed the Instrument of Surrender and accepted all the provisions of the Potsdam Proclamation, confirming the nature of the war of aggression launched by Japanese militarism, he said.
"This historical conclusion must not be tampered with, still less should the post-war international order be challenged," Guo said, adding that the "Enemy State Clauses" remain in the UN Charter to this day, and the relevant provisions, including Articles 53, 77 and 107, remain valid as well.
Guo said these clauses constitute special institutional arrangements concerning the defeated countries of World War II, aim at preventing them from once again posing a threat to international peace and security, and provide important institutional safeguards for upholding the post-war international order.
"Japan joined the UN on the premise that it acknowledged the crimes of militarism and accepted the UN Charter in its entirety," he added.
Guo said that the Japanese authorities not only avoid addressing their historical responsibilities, but also pay homage to Class-A war criminals of World War II, distort and whitewash the crimes of aggression, accelerate remilitarization, seek to revise the pacifist Constitution, antagonize almost all of their neighboring countries, openly interfere in other countries' internal affairs, and even issue threats of force.
"The 'gray rhino' of Japan's 'new militarism' is charging toward us, once again posing a threat to peace and stability in the Asia-Pacific. It is highly necessary to fully abide by the UN Charter and reaffirm the 'Enemy State Clauses,'" said Guo.