TITLE:
China urges Japan to draw lessons from history, win trust through concrete actions: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-23

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/V_251452/16488644.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 23 (Xinhua) -- China on Wednesday urged Japan to draw lessons from history, deeply reflect on the past, and win the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international community through concrete actions.
Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun made the remarks at a regular press briefing when asked to comment on Japanese Prime Minister Sanae Takaichi's speech at the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday, in which she said that Japan is a peace-loving country and called for the deletion of the "enemy state clauses" from the UN Charter.
"Compared with what Japan says, the international community is more concerned about what Japan does," Guo said.
He said post-war Japan's concept of being a "peace-loving country" was built on deeply reflecting on its history and making a complete break with militarism.
"In fact, the current Japanese administration not only denies its history of aggression and whitewashes its war crimes, but also continues to build up its military and expand its armaments, accelerates 'remilitarization,' seeks to abandon the Three Non-Nuclear Principles and revise the pacifist Constitution, and openly challenges the post-war international order," Guo said.
Japan has become a prominent factor threatening regional peace and stability, he stressed.
This year marks the 81st anniversary of the founding of the United Nations and the 80th anniversary of the opening of the Tokyo Trial, Guo said, adding that Japan joined the UN on the premise of acknowledging the crimes of militarism and accepting the UN Charter in its entirety.
The "enemy state clauses" in the UN Charter constitute important institutional arrangements aimed at preventing fascism and militarism from once again threatening international peace and security, and provide important institutional safeguards for upholding the post-war international order, Guo said.
"To this day, they still carry important practical significance," he said.
"We urge the Japanese side to draw lessons from history, deeply reflect on the past, and win the trust of its Asian neighbors and the international community through concrete actions," Guo said.