TITLE:
Chinese FM calls on Middle East, Gulf parties to resume dialogue, negotiation

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/V_251452/16481097.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, holds talks with Sheikh Jarrah Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kuwait, in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24. 2026. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)
BEIJING, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday that the current situation in the Middle East and the Gulf region is once again at a critical juncture, expressing hope that the parties concerned will return to the track of dialogue and negotiation as soon as possible.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when holding talks with Sheikh Jarrah Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, minister of foreign affairs of Kuwait, in Beijing. Wang added the top priority is to de-escalate the situation.
Wang said China always attaches great importance to its relations with Kuwait and stands ready to take the 55th anniversary of the establishment of bilateral ties as an opportunity to build a China-Kuwait strategic partnership with a more solid foundation, higher-quality outcomes and greater substance.
Wang also expressed confidence that Kuwait will continue to support China's just position on issues concerning its core interests and ensure the safety of Chinese personnel, institutions and projects in Kuwait.
Jarrah said Kuwait sincerely appreciates China's long-standing selfless assistance and support for Kuwait in safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. Kuwait firmly adheres to the one-China principle and is ready to work with China to implement the consensus reached by the two heads of state, Jarrah added.
Jarrah noted that Kuwait stands ready to strengthen communication and coordination with China to promote the early restoration of security and stability in the Middle East and the Gulf region, and safeguard the freedom and safety of international waterways.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, holds talks with Sheikh Jarrah Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kuwait, in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24. 2026. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)