TITLE:
China Coast Guard completes 45-day fisheries patrol in North Pacific

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/H_251454/L_251456/16484712.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 9 (Xinhua) -- A China Coast Guard (CCG) fleet has completed a 45-day fisheries law-enforcement patrol on the high seas of the North Pacific, the CCG said Wednesday.
The fleet, consisting of two CCG vessels, returned to port Wednesday after completing the patrol mission, the 11th of its kind, the CCG said in a statement.
The patrol was conducted under relevant United Nations General Assembly resolution and international conventions, the CCG statement said.
In recent years, the CCG has actively implemented relevant UN General Assembly resolution and international conventions. It has conducted boarding and inspection operations on the high seas to crack down on illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing activities, contributing to maintaining order in high seas fisheries and promoting the sustainable development of fishery resources.
During the mission, the fleet strengthened oversight of fishing operations and verified vessel registration information, observing and recording 95 fishing vessels from various countries and boarding 20 for inspections, the statement said.
The fleet also conducted seven helicopter flights for high-seas law enforcement.
The CCG said it would continue to conduct fisheries law-enforcement patrols on the high seas, fulfill its obligations under relevant conventions and help maintain orderly fishing operations in international waters.
With sound legislation, strict enforcement and rigorous judicial oversight, China has ranked among the top in compliance assessments of regional fisheries management organizations.
At a press briefing in July, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said China stands ready to work with all parties to improve global fisheries governance, uphold international maritime order, and contribute to conservation and sustainable use of marine resources through concrete actions.