TITLE:
Chinese naval hospital ship Auspicious Ark arrives in Guinea for medical mission

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-04

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/H_251454/L_251456/16491100.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
The Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy hospital ship Auspicious Ark arrived in Conakry, the capital of Guinea, on Saturday to begin a seven-day friendly visit and provide medical services, marking the first visit by a Chinese naval hospital ship to Guinea.
The hospital ship, which is carrying out Mission Harmony-2026, docked at the Port of Conakry at around 10:00 a.m. local time.
Guinean government and military officials, military personnel, the Chinese ambassador to Guinea, defense attache and embassy staff, local residents, representatives of overseas Chinese and Chinese enterprises gathered at the port to welcome the ship.
The national flags of China and Guinea fluttered from the ship's mast. A Guinean military band performed at the port as people waved the national flags of the two countries.
After the ship was berthed, the Guinean military band performed welcome music, while local residents presented a traditional Chinese-style lion dance, creating a warm and festive atmosphere.
Guinean government and military officials, together with the Chinese ambassador to Guinea, defense attache and embassy staff, later boarded the hospital ship for a tour and held discussions with representatives of the mission's personnel.
During the visit, the commander of the mission will hold talks with Guinean military leaders.
The hospital ship will provide medical services from its main platform. Medical training and medical outreach teams will also visit the China-Guinea Friendship Hospital and a military camp to conduct academic exchanges and provide medical consultations and treatment.
The mission will also host a reception on the ship's deck and arrange for representatives of its personnel to visit the Confucius Institute at the University of Conakry for cultural exchanges.