TITLE:
Philippines' claim of so-called maritime jurisdiction over China's territory is illegal: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-15

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/V_251452/16486640.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 15 (Xinhua) -- Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun said Tuesday that the Philippines' claim of so-called maritime jurisdiction over China's territory is illegal.
Guo made the remarks at a regular press briefing, adding that China will continue to take resolute measures to safeguard its territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, and firmly oppose any infringement.
It is reported that in a statement issued on Sept. 11, the Philippines' Department of Foreign Affairs reaffirmed the Philippines' sovereign rights and jurisdiction over Meiji Jiao and Zhubi Jiao as low-tide elevations (LTE) within the Philippines' exclusive economic zone and continental shelf. Later, it changed the narrative, reaffirming its sovereignty over Zhubi Jiao as an LTE within the territorial sea of Zhongye Dao.
"Nansha Qundao, including Meiji Jiao, Zhubi Jiao and Zhongye Dao, are China's inherent territory. It is totally legitimate and lawful for China to conduct construction and other activities on its own territory, a matter within China's sovereignty," Guo said.
He said the territorial scope of the Philippines has already been defined by a series of international treaties. Nansha Qundao has never been part of the Philippine territory, Guo stressed.
"According to the 'land dominates the sea' principle in international law, the Philippines' claim of so-called maritime jurisdiction over China's territory is illegal," said Guo, adding the Philippine side at one point claimed that Zhubi Jiao is within its exclusive economic zone (EEZ) and continental shelf, but later claimed that it lies within the territorial sea of the island it illegally occupies.
"This only exposes how absurd and random its claim is, making it totally untenable," the spokesperson noted.
He said the "South China Sea arbitration" is completely a political manipulation by the Philippines to grab unlawful gains. The so-called "award" is illegal, null and void, and has no binding force, Guo added.
Noting the Philippines' so-called "Maritime Zones Act" illegally includes China's Huangyan Dao and most of the islands and reefs in Nansha Qundao and relevant waters into the Philippines' maritime zone, Guo said this is a grave violation of China's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests in the South China Sea, and is illegal and null and void.
"China firmly opposes it and will never accept it," said Guo, adding the Philippines should immediately stop infringing upon China's rights, and stop the provocations and publicity stunts.