TITLE:
Second Ministerial Meeting of China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Ministerial Dialogue held in Jakarta

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-22

SOURCE:
China Military English

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://eng.chinamil.com.cn/2025xb/H_251454/L_251456/16480773.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
The Second Ministerial Meeting of China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Ministerial Dialogue is held in Jakarta, Indonesia, Aug. 21, 2026. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Defense Minister Dong Jun co-chaired the meeting with Indonesian Foreign Minister Sugiono and Defense Minister Sjafrie Sjamsoeddin. (Xinhua/Cen Yunpeng)
JAKARTA, Aug. 21 (Xinhua) -- The Second Ministerial Meeting of China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Ministerial Dialogue was held in Jakarta on Friday.
Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Defense Minister Dong Jun co-chaired the meeting with Indonesian Foreign Minister Sugiono and Defense Minister Sjafrie Sjamsoeddin.
Wang said the China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Ministerial Dialogue is the first ministerial-level "2+2" mechanism China has established globally, providing a new platform for strategic communication between the two countries.
As major developing countries and key members of the Global South, China and Indonesia should foster closer solidarity and cooperation in a timely fashion, Wang said, adding this bears significance far beyond the bilateral dimension and will play an exemplary and leading role at regional and global levels.
Under new circumstances, China and Indonesia should continue to carry forward the Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence and the Bandung Spirit, pool the strength of developing countries, and jointly advance Global South cooperation, Wang said.
China stands ready to strengthen strategic coordination with Indonesia on such multilateral platforms as the United Nations, APEC and the BRICS, advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world and universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, and advance the development of a more just and reasonable global governance system, he added.
Dong said that China is ready to work with Indonesia to further tap the potential for defense cooperation and create more highlights in bilateral cooperation.
China is willing to work with Indonesia to advance cooperation in defense and military development from a strategic perspective to provide solid security safeguards for their respective development, he said.
Reiterating Indonesia's firm commitment to the one-China policy, Sugiono said Indonesia appreciates China's firm support on issues concerning the safeguarding of Indonesia's national sovereignty.
Indonesia is ready to broaden its cooperation with China covering counter-terrorism, law-enforcement and the fight against cyber-fraud, while stepping up intelligence-sharing and capacity-building, Sugiono said.
Sjafrie said Indonesia is ready to strengthen strategic communication with China, enhance exchanges between the two militaries, and deepen cooperation in areas including defense, maritime security, cybersecurity, online gambling and telecommunications fraud, as well as transnational crime.
During the meeting, the two sides exchanged in-depth views on international and regional security issues of common concern. They agreed to foster a sense of security partnership, support each other's core interests, jointly oppose external interference, and make greater contributions to world peace and development.
The two sides jointly advocated the Asian security model that features sharing weal and woe, seeking common ground while shelving differences, and prioritizing dialogue and consultation, so as to safeguard the overall momentum of regional cooperation and maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea.
The two sides also expressed readiness to carry out more cooperation under the framework of the four global initiatives and jointly uphold the multilateral trading system. The two sides also agreed to strengthen coordination on the Middle East issue and actively promote peace and cease hostilities.
The Second Ministerial Meeting of China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Ministerial Dialogue is held in Jakarta, Indonesia, Aug. 21, 2026. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Defense Minister Dong Jun co-chaired the meeting with Indonesian Foreign Minister Sugiono and Defense Minister Sjafrie Sjamsoeddin. (Xinhua/Cen Yunpeng)