TITLE:
Bowers Museum in S. California celebrates Mid-Autumn Festival

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-15

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/15/ARTInyLmv0349TGw2ZB6Kq9H260915.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
A child attends a hands-on art activity during a culture event to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana, California, on Sept. 13, 2026. The Bowers Museum in Southern California hosted a series of cultural events on Sunday to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, one of the most cherished traditional holidays in China and other parts of Asia. The events featured traditional Chinese music and dance performances, a Chinese fashion show, tea ceremonies, Kung Fu demonstration and face-changing performance, along with hands-on cultural activities including Chinese paper-cutting and traditional printing. The events also included screening of documentaries on Chinese giant pandas and white dolphins. Visitors enjoyed traditional mooncakes, face painting and free art projects, and had the opportunity to experience traditional Chinese attire through a photo activity. (Photo by Zeng Hui/Xinhua)

LOS ANGELES, Sept. 13 (Xinhua) -- The Bowers Museum in Southern California hosted a series of cultural events on Sunday to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, one of the most cherished traditional holidays in China and other parts of Asia.

Tianlong Jiao, vice president of collections, chief curator and director of Asian Exhibitions at Bowers Museum, told Xinhua that cultural events like the Mid-Autumn Festival provide an opportunity for local communities to experience Chinese culture in an engaging and accessible way.

"We hope that through events like this, people in the United States can have a better understanding of Chinese culture and traditions, and that these experiences can help build connections and encourage communication and exchange between people from different cultural backgrounds," Jiao said.

The Mid-Autumn Festival is traditionally associated with the full moon, which symbolizes unity, harmony and family reunion. This year, the festival falls on Sept. 25.

Located in Santa Ana, California, the Bowers Museum features eight permanent collection galleries showcasing art and artifacts from cultures around the world, including a dedicated gallery on China.

Founded in 1936, the museum has engaged in cooperation and exchange programs with several Chinese museums.

A woman practices paper cutting during a culture event to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana, California, on Sept. 13, 2026. The Bowers Museum in Southern California hosted a series of cultural events on Sunday to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, one of the most cherished traditional holidays in China and other parts of Asia.

Children attend a hands-on art activity during a culture event to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana, California, on Sept. 13, 2026. The Bowers Museum in Southern California hosted a series of cultural events on Sunday to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, one of the most cherished traditional holidays in China and other parts of Asia.

A man views an artwork during a culture event to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana, California, on Sept. 13, 2026. The Bowers Museum in Southern California hosted a series of cultural events on Sunday to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, one of the most cherished traditional holidays in China and other parts of Asia.

People learn paper cutting during a culture event to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival at the Bowers Museum in Santa Ana, California, on Sept. 13, 2026. The Bowers Museum in Southern California hosted a series of cultural events on Sunday to celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival, one of the most cherished traditional holidays in China and other parts of Asia.