TITLE:
China's top legislator holds talks with president of El Salvador's Legislative Assembly

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-21

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/21/ARTIA7Y9g13oY29ERZtuODra260821.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Zhao Leji, chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), holds talks with Ernesto Castro, president of El Salvador's Legislative Assembly, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 20, 2026. (Xinhua/Rao Aimin)

BEIJING, Aug. 20 (Xinhua) -- Zhao Leji, chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), held talks with Ernesto Castro, president of El Salvador's Legislative Assembly, in Beijing on Thursday.

Noting that August 21 this year marks the 8th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and El Salvador, Zhao said that China stands ready to work with the Salvadoran side to implement the important common understandings reached by the heads of state of the two countries and elevate bilateral relations to new heights.

Both sides should deepen political mutual trust and be friends who support each other, he said, adding China appreciates El Salvador's adherence to the one-China principle and its support for China's position regarding Taiwan and human rights.

Zhao called on both sides to focus on the well-being of the people, deepen exchanges and cooperation in education, culture, media and other fields, and strengthen multilateral coordination and safeguard common interests.

The NPC of China is ready to work with the Legislative Assembly of El Salvador to enhance friendly exchanges between their special committees, bilateral friendship groups, deputies to the NPC and legislators, share experience in areas such as the rule of law and poverty reduction and development, and provide legal safeguards for practical cooperation, said Zhao.

For his part, Castro stated that developing friendly relations with China is of great significance to El Salvador. The Legislative Assembly of El Salvador is ready to strengthen mutual learning through exchanges with the NPC of China, building a bridge for further developing bilateral relations and advancing practical cooperation, said Castro.