TITLE:
China's island province Hainan offers diverse tourism experiences to holidaymakers

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-06

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/10/06/ARTIG23BIql10tEaBnX9tPug261006.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Visitors shop at Sanya International Duty-Free Shopping Complex in Sanya, south China's Hainan Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the first National Day holiday since the launch of the island-wide special customs operations at Hainan Free Trade Port (FTP), the tropical island has offered visitors from home and abroad a diverse range of experiences.(Xinhua/Guo Cheng)

HAIKOU, Oct. 4 (Xinhua) -- China's southernmost province of Hainan has more to offer than beaches and coconut trees.

During the first National Day holiday since the launch of the island-wide special customs operations at Hainan Free Trade Port (FTP), the tropical island has offered visitors from home and abroad a diverse range of experiences -- from duty-free shopping and local food to historic neighborhoods and the distinctive lifestyle of fishing communities.

In the seaside resort city of Sanya, the Sanya International Duty-Free Shopping Complex has drawn a steady stream of visitors during the holiday. The sprawling mall offers a wide selection of international brands, attractive duty-free prices and convenient pickup services.

"The shopping mall is huge and nice," said Alina, a Russian tourist. "There are many international brands and the prices are good. I enjoy shopping here very much."

Visiting China for the first time, Alina said she had enjoyed her trip to Hainan, where tropical coastal scenery was complemented by a world-class shopping experience.

Since Hainan expanded its duty-free shopping access to departing tourists last November, a growing number of overseas visitors like Alina have been seen at the island's major duty-free shopping centers.

For domestic tourists, duty-free shopping has long been a popular part of a Hainan itinerary.

Li Tian, a tourist from central China's Henan Province, purchased perfumes and cosmetics during her visit.

"Duty-free shopping is a must-do for me every time I visit Hainan. The prices are attractive, and the wide range of products meets my one-stop shopping needs," she said.

But the island's appeal goes well beyond its glossy shopping malls. Across Hainan, old streets, traditional neighborhoods and fishing ports offer visitors a chance to slow down and experience a different side of the island -- one rooted in local history and everyday life.

At Qilou Old Street in Haikou, the provincial capital, century-old arcade buildings line the historic streets, where tourists wander through narrow lanes, sample local snacks and soak up the atmosphere.

A local tea house on the street was packed with guests during the National Day holiday. "I came here to experience the local way of life. It's bustling and has a very authentic feel," said a tourist surnamed Xu from east China's Zhejiang Province.

At Xincun Port in Lingshui Li Autonomous County, hundreds of Tanka fish rafts are lined up across the blue waters, forming a unique "village on the sea." Shuttle boats ferry tourists back and forth, offering them a close-up look at the traditional culture and way of life of the Tanka people.

The Tanka people, or boat dwellers, are those who have traditionally lived on sampans and made their living by fishing in coastal waters. Over generations, they have developed a distinctive culture.

"I have never seen such a large cluster of fish rafts before, and I've never had a meal on one either. Today's experience is truly unique," said Gao Chen, a tourist from Beijing who enjoyed a seafood meal on a floating raft for the first time.

During the day, tourists here engage in fun activities like beachcombing and sea angling, harvesting fresh seafood. As night falls, Xincun night market comes alive with bustling crowds as people gather around stalls serving grilled seafood, tropical fruits and local snacks.

Sanya's Xidao Island, home to a fishing village with more than 400 years of history, offers yet another glimpse into the island's traditional coastal life. Visitors can explore its winding lanes on foot or rent electric scooters to get around.

"Cycling around the village makes me feel totally relaxed and at ease," said a tourist surnamed Zhang from north China's Hebei Province.

Hainan is at the forefront of a broader national effort to upgrade tourism offerings. The latest five-year tourism development plan, approved by the State Council and released in July, calls for nurturing new drivers of tourism growth and enriching the supply of high-quality tourism experiences.

The Hainan FTP officially launched island-wide special customs operations in December last year. According to plans, China aims to build Hainan into a globally influential tourism and consumption destination by 2035.

During the first National Day holiday since the launch of the island-wide special customs operations at Hainan Free Trade Port (FTP), the tropical island has offered visitors from home and abroad a diverse range of experiences -- from duty-free shopping and local food to historic neighborhoods and the distinctive lifestyle of fishing communities. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng)