TITLE:
China conducts military, law-enforcement patrols around Huangyan Dao

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/30/ARTIcSWivQ5HEW9G58Nn23vw260930.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 30 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese military and the China Coast Guard (CCG) conducted combat readiness patrols and law-enforcement patrols, respectively, around the country's Huangyan Dao on Wednesday.

Naval and air units of the Chinese People's Liberation Army Southern Theater Command conducted combat readiness patrols in the territorial sea and airspace of Huangyan Dao and its surrounding areas.

The theater command has organized its forces to carry out patrols in relevant areas since early September, the theater command said in a statement.

The patrols aim to further enhance control of relevant sea areas and airspace, and serve as an effective countermeasure to all sorts of rights violations and provocative acts, according to the statement.

Huangyan Dao is part of China's inherent territory. The Chinese military will resolutely safeguard China's sovereignty and security and firmly uphold peace and stability in the South China Sea, the statement added.

On the same day, the CCG conducted law-enforcement patrols in the territorial sea of the Huangyan Dao and its surrounding areas.

Law-enforcement patrols have been enhanced since early September, the CCG said, noting that its forces regulated ships engaged in illegal rights-violating activities in accordance with laws and regulations during the patrols.

The patrols are meant to further strengthen the orderly management of relevant waters and resolutely safeguard China's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, the CCG said.

China has sovereignty over Nanhai Zhudao (the South China Sea Islands), consisting of Dongsha Qundao (the Dongsha Islands), Xisha Qundao (the Xisha Islands), Zhongsha Qundao (the Zhongsha Islands) and Nansha Qundao (the Nansha Islands). Huangyan Dao is located in the Zhongsha Islands.

China has historic rights in the South China Sea. China also has internal waters, territorial sea, contiguous zone, exclusive economic zone and continental shelf, based on Nanhai Zhudao.

The international community has long widely recognized Nanhai Zhudao as part of China's territory.