TITLE:
China willing to support more visits, exchanges between Chinese, U.S. people: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/03/ARTIHk7C8oYJ3OBsBnlC68St260903.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- China will support more visits and exchanges between the peoples of China and the United States as always, so that the two countries can continue to write new chapters in their people-to-people friendship and make greater contributions to the development of bilateral relations, a Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson said Wednesday.

Spokesperson Guo Jiakun told a daily news briefing that recently, Ronald Sakolsky, affectionately known in China as "Saikaosi" for supporting China's fight against desertification, visited China upon invitation after 27 years.

During his visit, Sakolsky traveled to Inner Mongolia, where he joined the national model worker Yin Yuzhen, according to Guo. Sakolsky revisited the forest he helped fund years ago and planted a tree of friendship with Yin together. He also returned to the school in Luoyang, Henan Province, where he once taught, to meet with teachers and students, and visited Beijing as well.

Guo pointed out that throughout his visit, Sakolsky witnessed firsthand the remarkable changes that have taken place in China and once again experienced the warmth and hospitality of the Chinese people, and he was deeply moved and shed tears on several occasions.

In an interview with the media, Sakolsky said that Yin and he have shown that they can bridge cultures and break down boundaries, adding that the U.S. and Chinese people both want to live in peace. The two countries are like two roads -- they may take different routes, but they can still lead to the same destination, Sakolsky said.

"His sincere words have touched many people, reflecting a shared aspiration of the people of both countries," Guo said.

The hope of the China-U.S. relationship lies in the people, and its foundation lies in grassroots connections, Guo said, adding that many inspiring stories written together by the Chinese and U.S. people are a vivid testament to the people-to-people friendship.

"They also once again demonstrate that China and the United States, as two major countries, can achieve mutual success and contribute to the well-being of the world," he added.