TITLE:
China's top political advisor meets Indonesian People's Consultative Assembly speaker

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/22/ARTIERZYORecCzZVYSO3HjQ1260922.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Wang Huning, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), meets with Ahmad Muzani, speaker of Indonesia's People's Consultative Assembly (MPR), in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 21, 2026. (Xinhua/Zhang Ling)

BEIJING, Sept. 21 (Xinhua) -- Wang Huning, chairman of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), met with Ahmad Muzani, speaker of Indonesia's People's Consultative Assembly (MPR), in Beijing Monday.

Wang said the cordial meeting between the two heads of state last year provided new strategic guidance for building a China-Indonesia community with a shared future.

China is willing to work with Indonesia to implement the important common understandings reached by the two heads of state, deepen all-round strategic cooperation, strengthen exchanges of experience in state governance, and bring the building of a China-Indonesia community with a shared future to new heights, Wang said.

The CPPCC National Committee is willing to strengthen exchanges and communication, as well as mutual learning, with Indonesia's MPR, and make greater contributions to advancing the modernization of both countries and the development of bilateral relations, he added.

Muzani said Indonesia highly appreciates China's achievements in economic and social development and regards China as a model to learn from.

Indonesia firmly adheres to the one-China policy and is willing to deepen practical cooperation with China in various fields to better benefit the two peoples, he said.

Indonesia's MPR is willing to strengthen exchanges with the CPPCC National Committee and further promote the in-depth development of bilateral relations, Muzani added.