TITLE:
China makes progress in restoring communications after mudslide hits border port in Xizang

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-28

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/28/ARTIer5tXieFN0dSGtns410H260828.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
A landslide dam is found blocking the waterway toward Gyirong Port in southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, August 27, 2026. /VCG

China has made phased progress in emergency communication support and infrastructure restoration after a mudslide hit a border port in southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, the Ministry of Industry and Information Technology said on Thursday.

As of now, one telecom base station has been successfully restored, two new base stations have been put into operation and 5G inter-network roaming functionality has been simultaneously activated, the ministry said.

The mudslide struck Gyirong Port in Gyirong County, Xizang Autonomous Region, on Wednesday morning. As of 8 a.m. on Thursday, three people had been killed, 558 others remained missing, while two local villagers had been rescued.

The mudslide has cut off roads leading to the port on the Chinese side, as well as communications and power supplies.

Local telecom operators have since mobilized emergency crews and equipment for line checks, fault repairs and network optimization to ensure communications for rescue operations and the affected public.

Chinese authorities have launched full-scale rescue operations after the mudslide. The National Health Commission (NHC) announced on Thursday that it sent senior officials to Xizang to guide medical rescue and emergency response efforts.

The NHC, working with Xizang's regional government, is coordinating and deploying medical resources to ensure that all necessary measures are carried out, the NHC statement said.

Medical and disease control professionals have been dispatched from Lhasa to the disaster-hit area with emergency medical supplies, disinfection and disease-control medicines, and specialized vehicles, while ambulances, medical personnel and psychological support workers from neighboring counties have also been mobilized.