TITLE:
Chinese FM urges China, Germany to boost cooperation, uphold free trade

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/22/ARTILyRTxo8EHfy4kB4mwIvb260922.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 21 (Xinhua) -- Strengthening mutually beneficial cooperation between China and Germany serves the interests of both sides and is the right choice for both, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday.

In a phone conversation with German Foreign Minister Johann Wadephul, Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, called on China and Germany to send a positive signal of jointly upholding multilateralism and free trade, boost confidence in the development of China-Germany relations, and play a constructive role in the development of China-EU relations.

Noting that China and Germany are major economies in the world and all-round strategic partners, Wang said that in the face of unilateralism and deglobalization, it is necessary for both sides to strengthen strategic communication, enhance mutual trust, and deepen practical cooperation.

The two sides should cherish the progress achieved so far, push China-Germany cooperation to greater depth and solidity, and continue to produce new results, Wang said.

Wang pointed out that the one-China principle is the political foundation of China-Germany relations. He expressed the hope that Germany would cherish and build on the tradition of mutual trust and friendship between China and Germany, adhere to the one-China principle, and take concrete actions to safeguard China-Germany relations as well as peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait, thereby creating the necessary conditions for high-level exchanges between the two sides.

Noting that China and the EU are comprehensive strategic partners, Wang said that the two sides should not fight a trade war.

China has consistently maintained that China and the EU should work in the same direction and resolve each other's concerns through dialogue and consultation, Wang said.

Wang also expressed the hope that Germany would maintain a rational and practical approach, play a positive role within the EU, and help promote the EU to uphold free trade, reject protectionism, and stay on the right course of openness, cooperation, dialogue and consultation.

For his part, Wadephul said Germany-China relations have maintained a sound momentum of development in recent years.

Germany looks forward to further strengthening high-level exchanges with China, holding a new round of Germany-China intergovernmental consultations, deepening practical cooperation in areas such as trade and the economy, and continuously advancing bilateral relations, said Wadephul.

The German side firmly adheres to the one-China policy and the position will not change, said Wadephul.

Noting that the current international situation is facing a series of new threats and challenges, Wadephul said that Germany expects China to leverage its influence in international and regional affairs and work with Germany to explore solutions.

Germany supports the EU and China in properly addressing their differences through dialogue and is willing to play an active role in this regard, he added.

Wang said an important consensus reached by China and Germany today is that China-EU economic and trade issues should be resolved through dialogue and consultation.

The two sides also exchanged views on the situation in Iran and the Ukraine crisis. Wang reiterated China's principled position, saying China will only do what is conducive to peace and remains committed to promoting talks for peace. China stands ready to continue strengthening communication and coordination with the EU and make joint efforts toward this end.