TITLE:
China donates sample from far side of the moon to the UN

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-16

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/16/ARTIL8kOoqULB4XtfOCaOkK0260916.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
The handover ceremony held for China's donation of a lunar soil sample collected by its Chang'e-6 mission to the UN, Vienna, Austria, September 14, 2026. /CMG

China has donated a sample from the far side of the moon collected by its historic Chang'e-6 mission to the United Nations.

The soil sample comes from China's Chang'e-6 haul of 1,935.3 grams of material from the South Pole-Aitken (SPA) Basin – a first for humanity.

Exploring the vast universe is a shared dream of humanity, said Shan Zhongde, administrator of the China National Space Administration, in a speech at the ceremony in Vienna on Monday. The event was titled "From lunar ground to common ground: a shared future for all."

By donating the sample, which will go on permanent display at UN headquarters in Vienna, China has demonstrated its commitment to international cooperation, multilateralism and the peaceful use of outer space, Shan said.

China is willing to share the results of its space program with countries around the world, open up opportunities for cooperation and work together for shared prosperity to ensure space technology serves people worldwide, promote peaceful space exploration and build a community with a shared future for humanity, he told a gathering of more than 400 diplomats, UN officials, scientists and representatives of international organizations.

Attendees praised China's achievements in space exploration and its efforts to promote openness and sharing in the space sector.

Monica Juma, director-general of the UN Office at Vienna, highlighted Vienna 's unique role as a platform integrating science and diplomacy.

She said the permanent exhibition of the lunar sample represents human creativity, technological progress and the determination to explore the universe, as well as China's support for UN efforts to address global challenges.

China's donation and scientific data sharing show that outer space is humanity's collective domain, said Aarti Holla-Maini, director of the UN Office for Outer Space Affairs.

"Lunar samples from the far side are so rare, but this one, thanks to China, belongs to everyone. It belongs to us all," she said.

"I'm very proud that this gift will sit here in Vienna, not as a trophy, but as a teacher," Holla-Maini said, adding that the sample will tell the story of human lunar exploration and advance global outer space governance.

It will no longer be confined to laboratories or specialized facilities, but displayed where thousands of students, delegates and visitors from every corner of the world will see it each year.

"For us, we are all people who otherwise would never get the chance to stand so close to the Moon," Holla-Maini said. "From lunar ground to common ground, I hope that every visitor who stops in front of this rock leaves with a sense of wonder at what humanity, as individuals but also collectively together, can achieve."

Li Song, China's permanent representative to the UN and other international organizations in Vienna, said the event illustrates China's vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind. He called it an important Chinese initiative in support of the UN's cause of peace and the implementation of the four global initiatives.

"The event showcases China's vision and actions in working with all parties to firmly uphold the status and role of the UN, improve global governance of outer space and better benefit all humanity," Li said.