TITLE:
Chinese, French FMs discuss ties, int'l issues over phone

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-15

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/15/ARTIwInTtPQcciRPEQEHBUw0260915.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 14 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday held a phone conversation with French Foreign Minister Jean-Noel Barrot at the latter's request, discussing bilateral relations and international issues.

During the talks, Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, said that under the strategic guidance of the two heads of state, China-France relations have generally maintained stable development dynamics.

Facing a complex and volatile international landscape, China and France, as permanent members of the UN Security Council, should strengthen strategic communication and jointly address risks and challenges, Wang said.

China actively supports France in fulfilling its responsibilities as the rotating president of the UN Security Council this month and looks forward to France's efforts to ensure that the council plays its due role, Wang said.

Wang stressed that the one-China principle is the political foundation of the China-France comprehensive strategic partnership, expressing hope that the French side will uphold the one-China principle through concrete actions, refrain from any form of official engagement with China's Taiwan, and send no wrong signal to "Taiwan independence" forces.

China and the European Union (EU) should remain committed to their partnership, pursue mutually beneficial cooperation and win-win, maintain mutual openness, properly resolve current economic and trade frictions through constructive dialogue, and avoid escalating confrontation, Wang said.

Protectionism will not enhance Europe's competitiveness but will instead deprive consumers of high-quality and affordable products, drive up inflation and hamper the process of green transition, he added.

Noting that China is one of the world's largest markets and that China's development presents an opportunity rather than a challenge for the EU, Wang expressed hope that France, as a major country with a strategic vision, will take a pragmatic and rational approach in encouraging the EU to work with China in the same direction, view China's development more accurately, and play a positive role in promoting the stability of China-EU relations.

Barrot, for his part, said that in the year since French President Emmanuel Macron's visit to China, France and China have upheld the "Dujiangyan Spirit" of engagement and integration, sought common ground while respecting differences, and maintained dialogue, with bilateral relations generally maintaining their momentum of development.

Barrot noted that France firmly adheres to the one-China policy.

Faced with difficulties and challenges in EU-China economic and trade relations, France stands ready to promote constructive engagement between the EU and China to find solutions, Barrot said.

The two sides also exchanged views on issues of common concern, including the situation in Iran and the Ukraine crisis. Wang briefed Barrot on the China's principled position and noted that Chinese President Xi Jinping has put forward a four-point proposal for building a new security architecture in the Middle East, providing a global public good for regional peace and stability and playing a constructive role.