TITLE:
Chinese FM urges greater progress in China-South Korea strategic cooperative partnership

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-21

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/21/ARTIWtHrrwOXsHxGNAbL1RIU260821.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
South Korean President Lee Jae Myung meets with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, at Cheong Wa Dae in Seoul, South Korea, Aug. 20, 2026. (Xinhua)

SEOUL, Aug. 20 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi said here on Thursday that he hopes South Korea will firmly pursue a friendly policy toward China and take the 35th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries next year as an opportunity to make greater progress in the China-South Korea strategic cooperative partnership.

Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when meeting with South Korean President Lee Jae Myung in Seoul.

Wang said the comprehensive restoration of China-South Korea relations and positive progress made since the beginning of this year have demonstrated that a rational, pragmatic and positive policy toward China fully serves South Korea's interests and is in keeping with the trend of the times.

As an important force for maintaining world peace, China consistently advocates the political settlement of international and regional conflicts through dialogue, Wang said, adding that China is also a major stabilizing force, providing valuable certainty for the world.

Wang also noted that China is ready to share development opportunities with all countries, especially its neighbors. Amid growing global economic fragmentation and rising trade protectionism, Wang pointed out that China and South Korea should set an example by concluding the second phase of Free Trade Agreement (FTA) negotiations at an early date to promote regional economic integration and universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization.

For his part, the South Korean president said that he was glad to see China-South Korea relations improving and developing rapidly, with strong growth momentum in economic and trade cooperation. While highlighting that people-to-people exchanges between the two countries are expected to exceed 10 million this year, Lee said that South Korean public perceptions of China are improving and there are growing expectations for strengthening comprehensive cooperation with China.

Amid the current international situation, Lee said that stronger strategic cooperation between South Korea and China serves the fundamental interests of both countries and is important for regional peace and stability.

South Korea and China should become mutually dependent and mutually beneficial partners with complementary strengths, Lee said, adding that the two countries need each other in areas such as economy, trade and security.

Lee said he looks forward to visiting China's Shenzhen City in November for the 2026 APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting, calling it an important opportunity to work with China to advance the South Korea-China strategic cooperative partnership to a new level.

During the visit, Wang also met with South Korean Foreign Minister Cho Hyun and Wi Sung-lac, South Korea's top presidential national security advisor.