TITLE:
China's railway passenger trips hit record single-day high

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-04

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/10/04/ARTISHUcAqDEprAyYZEQlBrv261004.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Passengers line up at the boarding gates at Shenzhen North Railway Station in Shenzhen, south China's Guangdong Province, October 1, 2026. /VCG

China's railway network handled 25.204 million passenger trips on October 1, the first day of the week-long National Day holiday, setting a new single-day record, China State Railway Group Co., Ltd. (China Railway) said Friday.

On October 2, the railway network is expected to handle 20.39 million passenger trips, with 1,462 additional trains scheduled to meet the high demand, the company said.

Passenger ticket pre-sales show that the most popular departure cities on Friday include Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Chengdu, Shenzhen, Hangzhou, Wuhan, Xi'an, Zhengzhou and Nanjing, while popular arrival cities include Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Hangzhou, Shanghai, Wuhan, Xi'an, Zhengzhou, Nanjing and Changsha.

Routes such as Xi'an-Chengdu round trips, as well as those from Beijing to Shenyang, Zhengzhou and Qingdao are among the busiest.

Railway authorities across the country have strengthened transport organization and implemented measures to ensure safe, convenient and comfortable travel.

China Railway Taiyuan Group has coordinated with local transport departments and scenic spots to add shuttle buses linking Datong South Station with the Yungang Grottoes, a UNESCO World Heritage site featuring more than 50,000 Buddhist stone sculptures, and the Hengshan Mountain scenic area in north China's Shanxi Province.

China Railway Hohhot Group has added 11 multiple-unit trains to the Baotou-Wuhai section of the Baotou-Yinchuan high-speed railway.

China Railway Wuhan Group, tapping the newly opened Yichang-Xingshan high-speed railway, has launched a promotion campaign with local governments in Yichang and Xingshan, offering passengers exclusive discounts at scenic spots, hotels and homestays when they present their train tickets.

China Railway expects some 284 million passenger trips during the Mid-Autumn Festival and National Day holiday period, which runs from September 23 to October 8.