TITLE:
Full text: Xi's remarks at state dinner held by Trump at the White House

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-25

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/25/ARTIfZjyTUGHxUZEneyOqUys260925.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Thursday gave remarks at the state dinner hosted by U.S. President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States.

The following is the full text of the remarks:

Honorable President Donald J. Trump and Mrs. Melania Trump,

Ladies and Gentlemen,

Dear Friends,

Thank you, Mr. President and Mrs. Trump, for extending to my wife and me your gracious hospitality and thoughtful arrangements. You and Mrs. Trump have made many special arrangements for our visit, all prepared with meticulous care and consideration in every detail. You make us feel truly at home. I would also like to extend my sincere greetings to Americans from all sectors of society who care about China-U.S. relations and support the further growth of our bilateral ties. As I speak, my compatriots in China are celebrating the Mid-Autumn Festival -- a cherished occasion for family reunion in Chinese tradition. I wish you all a very happy Mid-Autumn Festival, and my best wishes to you and your families.

In May this year, President Trump paid a successful visit to China at my invitation. We agreed to build a constructive China-U.S. relationship of strategic stability. During the visit, President Trump warmly invited me to visit the United States, and I have come as promised. In less than half a year, the Chinese and American presidents have exchanged state visits, making history in our bilateral engagement. Today, President Trump and I had sincere and in-depth exchanges and reached common understanding on many issues. This has added new substance to the constructive China-U.S. relationship of strategic stability, and provided new strategic guidance for China-U.S. relations.

Not long ago, the United States celebrated the 250th anniversary of its independence. On that occasion, I sent my congratulations on behalf of the Chinese government and people. The past 200-plus years have also witnessed friendly exchanges between China and the United States.

Over 200 years ago, soon after its independence, the United States turned its eyes to China. Our two countries started trading with each other, exchanging goods to meet each other's needs and draw on our complementary strengths. In fact, President George Washington had personally acquired a large collection of Chinese porcelain.

Over 80 years ago, the Chinese and American people stood shoulder to shoulder in the fight against Japanese militarist aggressors. Together we opened the famous Hump air route over the Himalayas. During the War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression, Chinese soldiers and civilians rescued hundreds of American pilots at the cost of hundreds of thousands of Chinese lives. Such a friendship, forged in blood and fire, will surely live on through the generations.

Over 50 years ago, Ping-Pong Diplomacy between China and the United States reopened the door to bilateral exchanges that had been closed for years. With the political wisdom embodied in "a small ball moving the globe," the older generation of Chinese and American statesmen, led by Chairman Mao Zedong and President Richard Nixon, set in motion the historic process of normalizing relations between our two countries. The redwood trees that President Nixon had presented as a special state gift have taken root in Zhejiang Province where I worked for several years.

Over 20 years ago, an American named Ronald Sakolsky gave financial support to Yin Yuzhen, a Chinese desert control worker, for her tree-planting effort. Just recently, Ronald, now an elderly man, returned to China. He saw with his own eyes that the desert back then had turned into a lush forest. This story touches the hearts of many Chinese people and stands as a shining example of the friendly exchanges between our two peoples.

Exchanges have helped promote heart-to-heart communication between our peoples and cemented public support for China-U.S. friendship and cooperation.

Reviewing the past gives us new perspectives. Today, we have come to another historic juncture for China-U.S. relations. President Trump has pledged to make America great again and led the American people in making significant strides. China is committed to achieving great national rejuvenation, and Chinese modernization has kept breaking new ground. These two goals are both ambitious and can surely be mutually reinforcing. China and the United States must act as responsible major countries, meet the expectations of our peoples, keep pace with the trend of our times, and explore a new approach for major countries to get along with each other.

Like a river that never stops flowing, history never stands still. The friendship between the two peoples is a worthy cause that holds great promise. Let us join hands and move forward side by side. Together, let us nurture the beautiful flowers of China-U.S. friendship. Together, let us write a new chapter in our friendly relations.

Now, I would like to propose a toast:

To the health of President and Mrs. Trump;

To the prosperity and progress of China and the United States; and

To the friendship between our two peoples.

Cheers!