TITLE:
HKSAR gov't holds flag-raising ceremony, reception to celebrate National Day

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-02

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/10/02/ARTIiQtuXk1i551V7JvzhxEe261002.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
The government of China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) holds a flag-raising ceremony to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in south China's Hong Kong, Oct. 1, 2026. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)

HONG KONG, Oct. 1 (Xinhua) -- The government of China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) on Thursday held a flag-raising ceremony and a reception to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.

The flag-raising ceremony was held at the Golden Bauhinia Square on Thursday morning. The national anthem was played, and China's national flag and the flag of the HKSAR were hoisted.

The ceremony was followed by a reception hosted by the HKSAR government in the adjoining Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Center.

Noting that this is the first National Day celebrated since the announcement of Hong Kong's first five-year plan, HKSAR Chief Executive John Lee said at the reception that the plan provides a strategic roadmap for Hong Kong to seize the opportunities brought by national development by applying its unique advantages under "one country, two systems."

"I am confident that as long as we, each dedicated to our respective roles, join hands and work in synergy with one another, Hong Kong will certainly be able to set out on a path to a brighter and more prosperous future," said Lee.

The government of China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) holds a reception to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in south China's Hong Kong, Oct. 1, 2026. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)

Helicopters carrying China's national flag and the flag of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) are seen in south China's Hong Kong, Oct. 1, 2026. The HKSAR government on Thursday held a flag-raising ceremony and a reception to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)