TITLE:
Iran in "all-out" economic, military, security war: president

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/24/ARTIcn1ZlgyMxn7mzWVvMmEP260824.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This file photo shows Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian (L) speaking during his visit to the headquarters of Iran's Red Crescent Society (IRCS) in Tehran, Iran, April 15, 2026. (Xinhua/Shadati)

TEHRAN, Aug. 23 (Xinhua) -- Iran's President Masoud Pezeshkian said Sunday the country is in an "all-out" economic, military, and security war with the "enemies."

Despite the U.S. pressure, "we are standing and making efforts to serve the people in the face of this unequal war," Pezeshkian said in a televised speech carried by the official news agency IRNA.

The government is making "wholehearted" efforts to reduce inflation and resolve people's economic problems, he added.

Iran's Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi attends a ceremony where Iran's Foreign Ministry and Health Ministry sign a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on cooperation in rebuilding infrastructure damaged during the war in Tehran, Iran, Aug. 11, 2026. (Xinhua/Shadati)

Meanwhile, Iranian Foreign Minister Seyed Abbas Araghchi said in a statement Sunday that the United States has no other way but to speak respectfully with the Iranian people, according to IRNA.

The anti-Iran economic operation claimed by U.S. President Donald Trump is a "recurring scenario and the same bullying that always occurs in U.S. policies," Araghchi said, adding, "In a sense, it is a repetitive film that we have watched over and over and know how to deal with."

In a Wednesday post on Truth Social, Trump announced "the most crushing economic operation ever taken" against any country providing a lifeline to Iran.

"This will be Economic Warfare and Isolation on an unprecedented scale," he said, calling the move "an ECONOMIC D-DAY."

On June 18, the United States and Iran signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on ending the war in the region on all fronts, including Lebanon. Under the MoU, they were scheduled to hold negotiations within 60 days, which ended on Monday, to reach a final agreement, but the fate of the talks remains unclear following the escalation between the two countries last month.