TITLE:
Iran's president says U.S. to achieve nothing through economic pressure

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-27

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/27/ARTIiJuWJnwL0gXtCX8lMZP6260827.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This photo taken on May 1, 2026 shows a view of Tehran, Iran. (Xinhua)

TEHRAN, Aug. 26 (Xinhua) -- Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian said on Wednesday that the United States will not achieve anything through its economic pressure against Iran.

He made the remarks at a meeting in the capital Tehran to discuss the latest situation of Iran's major monetary, foreign currency and financial indices. Iran's Minister of Economic Affairs and Finance Seyed Ali Madanizadeh, Central Bank Governor Abdolnaser Hemmati and a group of prominent economists attended the meeting, according to a statement published on the website of his office.

Pezeshkian said that although Iran seeks to resolve issues through engagement and negotiation, it will, at the same time, stand firm against economic pressure, as it has so far.

He expressed confidence that the United States will not achieve anything through its economic pressure at this stage, citing preparations made by his administration's economic sectors. He said this would be similar to the (40-day) war, when the Iranian armed forces and people prevented it from attaining its objectives with their bravery and support.

Earlier this month, U.S. President Donald Trump announced "the most crushing economic operation ever taken" against any country providing a lifeline to Iran.

"This will be Economic Warfare and Isolation on an unprecedented scale," he said, calling the move "an ECONOMIC D-DAY."

On Feb. 28, Israel and the United States launched joint attacks on Tehran and other Iranian cities. Iran responded with waves of missile and drone attacks targeting Israel and U.S. bases and assets in the region.

On June 18, the United States and Iran signed a memorandum of understanding (MoU) on ending the war in the region on all fronts, including Lebanon. Under the MoU, they were scheduled to hold negotiations within 60 days, which ended on Aug. 17, to reach a final agreement, but the fate of the talks remains unclear following the escalation between the two countries last month.