TITLE:
Kyrgyz expert perceives China-Kyrgyzstan cooperation as model of good-neighborliness

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-30

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/30/ARTIsmMwv3bqtYGVUflhvXD1260830.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This aerial photo taken on Oct. 27, 2020 shows the construction site of the second phase of the north-south highway in Kyrgyzstan. (China Road & Bridge Corporation/Handout via Xinhua)

BISHKEK, Aug. 29 (Xinhua) -- Cooperation between China and Kyrgyzstan contributes to peace and stability in Central Asia and serves as a vivid example of good-neighborliness, a Kyrgyz political expert has said.

In an interview with Xinhua, Sheradil Baktygulov, director of the Kyrgyz Institute of World Politics in Bishkek, pointed to the two peoples' "long-lasting history of interaction."

"The ancient Silk Road is not just our common history; it is now a solid platform for our bright future cooperation. With this common past and our very long history of interaction, we are rediscovering each other again and again," he said.

As this year marks the 25th anniversary of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the 35th anniversary of Kyrgyzstan's independence, Baktygulov attaches special importance to Chinese President Xi Jinping's upcoming state visit to Kyrgyzstan and attendance at this year's SCO Summit in Bishkek.

"We are living in a time of uncertainty. President Xi's visit will give us new hope that our region and our peoples can develop in a more sustainable and peaceful way and that we can achieve common prosperity. That is the final goal," he said.

The expert also voiced his belief that Xi is leading a country that is unique not only in its history, territory and population, but also in its approach to engaging with neighboring countries and to solving modern challenges.

"China," he said, "is working to offer solutions and show how problems can be solved jointly, inviting other countries to cooperate in this process."

Describing China as a reliable partner and friend, Baktygulov said China has so much to offer in terms of technology and opportunities, and, most importantly, it generously shares its experience and technologies with those who need them.

A man visits the exhibition "Harmony Creates Beauty: An Art Exhibition of Ancient Chinese Civilization" at the National History Museum of the Kyrgyz Republic in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 18, 2026. (Photo by Roman Gainanov/Xinhua)

Baktygulov said people-to-people exchanges provide an important foundation for mutual understanding, citing joint archaeological projects as an example. Such cooperation has helped local researchers develop new skills while inspiring more young people to study archaeology and history, he added.

"It's about the rebirth of the spirit of the Silk Road and how our friendship is slowly flourishing," he noted.

Baktygulov stressed the important role of joint research in forging lasting ties between a new generation of Kyrgyz and Chinese researchers.

"Their native languages may be different, but they are speaking one common language -- the language of science," he said, adding that science, culture and joint research are "building invisible fibers" between civilizations.

Baktygulov said this spirit of mutual understanding and shared pursuit of knowledge is also reflected in the Shanghai Spirit, whose principles resonate across civilizations and traditions, embodying common values that have long guided humanity's aspirations for peace, trust, cooperation and justice.