TITLE:
Macao SAR releases economic, social development plan for 2026-2030 period

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-22

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/22/ARTIsMCnYOnSwHQi5xrdnYtR260822.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This photo taken on Aug. 18, 2026 shows a press conference held to introduce the Third Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) in south China's Macao. The Macao SAR government on Tuesday released the Third Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the Macao SAR (2026-2030). (Xinhua/Cheong Kam Ka)

MACAO, Aug. 18 (Xinhua) -- The Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) government on Tuesday released the Third Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the Macao SAR (2026-2030).

The third five-year plan is an important initiative for Macao to advance the cause of "one country, two systems" and better integrate into and serve the country's overall development, said Macao SAR Chief Executive Sam Hou Fai at a press conference held at the SAR government headquarters to introduce the plan.

The plan, consisting of 10 parts and 36 chapters, sets out eight development goals, which are: to ensure full implementation of the holistic approach to national security; to improve the effectiveness of law-based governance; to make substantial progress in appropriate economic diversification; to advance progress with high-quality development of the Guangdong-Macao In-Depth Cooperation Zone in Hengqin; to yield visible results from the integrated development of education, technology and talent; to further improve people's well-being; to make significant progress in building a beautiful and "smart" Macao; and to better integrate into and serve the country's overall development.

The chief executive said that the SAR government is proactively positioning and planning Macao within the broader context of national development and actively implementing the country's 15th Five-Year Plan's relevant arrangements.

Sam outlined four major tasks for the 2026-2030 period: to advance appropriate economic diversification through major projects and a government guidance fund; to deepen integrated development with Hengqin and advance high-quality development of the cooperation zone; to accelerate urban renewal and build a beautiful and "smart" Macao; and to reinforce Macao's connectivity with both the mainland and the world, and better integrate into and serve the country's overall development.

The release followed a public consultation conducted from May 20 to June 28, during which the SAR government solicited opinions and suggestions from various sectors of society.

Yin Yifen, director of Social, Economic and Public Policy Research Center, Macao Polytechnic University, told Xinhua that Macao's five-year planning mechanism "brings two core advantages for economic diversification and policy coherence."

Yin added that the mechanism operates within the "one country, two systems" and serves as an important institutional supplement to the framework. It anchors Macao's development in national strategies while translating broad requirements into measurable goals covering the economy, people's livelihoods and security, and consolidating institutional capacity for SAR governance.