TITLE:
Macao's new five-year plan charts course for high-quality development

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-22

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/22/ARTIDdOPidjSTAeFpycRM7Yg260822.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This photo taken on Aug. 18, 2026 shows a press conference held to introduce the Third Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) in south China's Macao. (Xinhua/Cheong Kam Ka)

MACAO, Aug. 19 (Xinhua) -- Macao's new development plan for the 2026-2030 period marks another key step in the successful practice of "one country, two systems" with Macao characteristics and is significant for advancing its appropriate economic diversification.

The Macao Special Administrative Region (SAR) government on Tuesday released the Third Five-Year Plan for Economic and Social Development of the Macao SAR (2026-2030) -- a roadmap for the SAR to march toward high-quality development and a major move to actively align with the national 15th Five-Year Plan.

The five-year period represents a critical window for Macao's high-quality development. The new blueprint will translate national strategic opportunities into driving forces for Macao's development, and turn institutional strengths into governance efficacy.

At its core is the push for appropriate economic diversification -- a move to address Macao's structural challenge due to its long-standing reliance on the gaming industry. The SAR will foster emerging industries as new growth drivers through major projects and a government guidance fund, and advance high-quality development in the Guangdong-Macao In-Depth Cooperation Zone in Hengqin.

Notably, the blueprint balances economic development with social priorities. Education, employment, housing, elderly care and urban renewal receive dedicated policy attention, embodying a people-centered approach that ensures the fruits of development are shared more widely and equitably among all citizens.

From the proactive planning of the SAR government to the suggestions from all sectors of society, the new guiding document fully attests to the fine tradition of "loving the motherland and loving Macao" -- the very source of Macao's resolve to surmount difficulties and forge ahead.

Macao strictly fulfills its constitutional duties and aligns with national strategies, while exploring its development path based on its unique endowments. The new development roadmap clearly shows that under the principle of "patriots administering Macao," Macao is adept at integrating central government support, institutional strengths, and social synergy to continuously translate institutional advantages into tangible governance outcomes.

As the Macao SAR government translates the roadmap into reality through concerted efforts across all sectors of society, the city will surely open up new prospects for high-quality development, contribute more to national rejuvenation, and ensure the steady and sustained practice of "one country, two systems" with Macao characteristics.