TITLE:
Shenzhou-23 astronauts complete first series of extravehicular activities

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-29

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/29/ARTILJcytOHbDrRhgqPNSqep260829.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This screen image captured at Beijing Aerospace Control Center on Aug. 28, 2026 shows Shenzhou-23 astronaut Zhu Yangzhu performing extravehicular activities outside China's orbiting space station. The Shenzhou-23 crew aboard China's orbiting space station completed their mission's first series of extravehicular activities on Friday, according to the China Manned Space Agency. (Photo by Yu Liqiang/Xinhua)

BEIJING, Aug. 28 (Xinhua) -- The Shenzhou-23 crew aboard China's orbiting space station completed their mission's first series of extravehicular activities on Friday, according to the China Manned Space Agency (CMSA).

The astronaut trio -- Zhu Yangzhu, Zhang Zhiyuan and Li Jiaying -- worked for approximately 5.5 hours and completed their tasks at 1:59 p.m. (Beijing Time), assisted by the space station's robotic arm and ground support teams. Zhu, who previously spacewalked three years ago, made his second excursion, while Zhang ventured outside for the first time.

Zhu and Zhang installed debris shields and repaired the station's solar panels, ensuring the safety and stability of its power supply, according to the CMSA. This is the second time Chinese astronauts have performed such in-orbit maintenance tasks.

The three astronauts were launched aboard the Shenzhou-23 spacecraft on May 24.

Since arriving at the station, the crew has completed an in-orbit handover, deployed application payloads outside the station, and conducted rendezvous-and-docking drills, medical rescue exercises and full-system pressure emergency response drills, according to the agency.

Scientific experiments and technology tests in space life sciences, human research, microgravity physics and new space technologies are progressing steadily, the CMSA said.

In the coming months, they will carry out scientific experiments, technology tests, application payload deployments outside the station, and public outreach activities, the agency added.