TITLE:
Trump warns in UN speech he could 'annihilate' Iran without peace deal

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-23

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/23/ARTIX7V4Ghw3qaIfUFEhjwme260923.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
US President Donald Trump addresses The United Nations General Assembly in New York, US, September 22, 2026. /CFP

US President Donald Trump used his UN General Assembly speech on Tuesday to make the case for his war on Iran, arguing he has prevented Tehran from obtaining a nuclear weapon and warning that he could "annihilate the Islamic Republic" if no deal is reached to end the conflict.

"I will never allow Iran to have a nuclear weapon," Trump told the 81st session of the General Assembly, describing Tehran as “the bully of the Middle East” that is “the bully no longer.”

While predicting his administration would strike a peace deal with Iran following the November 3 US midterm elections, Trump called on other nations to join America in isolating Iran economically to force it to the negotiating table.

"I have a big decision to make. Will a deal be made with Iran that lets them rebuild and create a far greater country than it ever was before?" Trump said. "Or do I annihilate the Islamic Republic and do it quickly, never giving them a chance to kill and destroy people and countries again?"

Trump also threatened to "drive them into hell" if Tehran fails to capitulate, adding: "I believe we'll make a deal right after the election because it doesn't make sense for them not to."

The Iranian delegation walked out within 10 minutes of Trump's speech. Iranian President Masoud Pezeshkian and Foreign Minister Abbas Araghchi were in New York for the annual meeting but did not attend the speech.

US Secretary of State Marco Rubio said Tuesday that Trump is open to speaking with Iranian officials on the sidelines of the UN General Assembly, though no meeting has been scheduled. Rubio said any such talks would need to have the potential to produce a positive outcome, including preventing Iran from obtaining a nuclear weapon.