TITLE:
Trump says U.S. may strike Iranian nuclear site soon, calls conflict "small potatoes"

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-05

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/05/ARTID9FXXFo304pUMfS9PXvX260905.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
This photo taken on April 3, 2026 shows a view of a destroyed sports stadium inside the Azadi Sports Complex in Tehran, Iran. (Xinhua/Shadati)

WASHINGTON, Sept. 4 (Xinhua) -- U.S. President Donald Trump said Friday that the U.S. military may soon strike Iran's Pickaxe Mountain -- a fortified site near Iran's Natanz enrichment facility -- while trying to downplay the conflict with Iran as "small potatoes."

"We may hit Pickaxe very soon," Trump told reporters at the White House, referring to the underground facility where Washington says Iran has moved some of its stockpile of highly enriched uranium.

Meanwhile, Trump tried to downplay the conflict with Iran, arguing that it was not a war. "It's a military conflict, but it's very intermittent," Trump said, though he has repeatedly described the conflict as a "war" while avoiding the term at times.

"I call it a military conflict because it's small potatoes for us. It's not a big thing," Trump claimed.

"I would say that it's intermittent. You know, we do intermittent strikes," Trump said. "There's a lot of truth that we're not fighting right now. There's no fighting."

U.S. forces targeted nearly 60 Iranian targets around the Strait of Hormuz this week, including air defense sites, radar systems, mine-laying capabilities and communications facilities, CNN reported.

On Tuesday night, a U.S. strike hit a wedding party in Sirik County in Hormozgan province, killing at least five people and injuring over 60 others, Iranian state media reported.

Trump on Wednesday threatened to launch more strikes on Iran "anytime we want."

The United States and Israel launched massive military attacks on Iran on Feb. 28, marking the start of a conflict that has killed thousands of people.