TITLE:
Unitree's successful IPO a vote of confidence in China's high-tech future

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-20

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/08/20/ARTIISkYMoAwaL6mzbafg5XA260820.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
A robot developed by Unitree Robotics performs dancing during an AI exhibition by the West Lake in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, June 24, 2026. (Xinhua/Han Chuanhao)

BEIJING, Aug. 20 (Xinhua) -- China's leading robotics company Unitree Robotics had a successful debut on Wednesday, with its shares ending the day up 460.34 percent on the Shanghai Stock Exchange's sci-tech innovation board, known as the STAR Market.

Unitree Robotics' debut on the STAR Market represents much more than just a corporate fundraising event. It brings capital-market validation to the booming industry and casts a vote of confidence in a high-tech future.

The message is clear: the capital market is placing faith in the growth of the emerging tech segment and the broader robotics industry. The company gives a glimpse into China's capability to translate its industrial chain strengths into commercially viable artificial intelligence applications.

Hangzhou-based Unitree Robotics is a global sales leader in humanoid and quadruped robots. In 2025, it shipped over 5,500 units of humanoid robots -- roughly a third of the global total -- ranking first worldwide. This dynamism is evident in the 116,000 new companies registered in China's humanoid robotics sector in the first half of this year.

Embodied intelligence holds enormous potential in China, which boasts a large market for robotics as the world's second-largest economy accelerates its industrial upgrade and advances high-quality development. Deeply integrated into the country's comprehensive industrial ecosystem, the industry unlocks demand across smart manufacturing, household services, and disaster relief operations, among others. For example, humanoid robots have been used to serve as traffic police, restaurant servers, and package sorters in Chinese cities such as Hangzhou and Shenzhen.

Clearly, the robotics industry will not only drive automation across China's industries but also support industrialization in Global South countries. Furthermore, it can meet the practical need for robots to handle dangerous, complex, or costly tasks. Cleaning robots have been employed in some countries to take on the once complicated and expensive task of washing high-rise glass facades.

Robotics is a shared global undertaking. Unitree Robotics' listing coincided with the opening of the World Robot Conference that runs until Sunday, as well as the World Humanoid Robot Games from Aug. 22 to 26.

The two robotics events in Beijing serve as important platforms for participants worldwide to examine real-world application prospects, showcase how embodied intelligence machines may reshape human life, and carry out exchanges and cooperation among robotics businesses so as to empower common development and promote human well-being through the industry.

The events also provide a testing ground for the very future that Unitree's listing has priced in. Ultimately, the true measure of its IPO will not be first-day gains, but how effectively China's robotics ecosystem translates capital into shared prosperity.