TITLE:
World reacts: Xi-Trump summit brings fresh momentum for global cooperation

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-27

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/27/ARTIrhROBBz4qz3xrDEuDO5q260927.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Crowds wave the national flags of China and the United States during Chinese President Xi Jinping's state visit to the United States, September 23, 2026. /CMG

Chinese President Xi Jinping concluded his state visit to the United States on Friday, with the leaders of the two countries reaching a number of common understandings on bilateral ties and other issues of mutual interest.

The understandings further enriched the vision of building a constructive China-US relationship of strategic stability, Xi said, calling on the two sides to translate that vision into action and find the right way for the two major countries to get along.

The meeting has drawn close attention internationally, with figures from around the world welcoming closer communication between the two major powers and saying greater cooperation could help address challenges facing the world.

Closer China-US ties expected

Highlighting President Xi's visit to the United States as a historic moment, Sourabh Gupta, a senior fellow at the Institute for China-America Studies based in Washington, D.C., said the United States and China should be partners, not adversaries, and should coexist in a turbulent world.

Gupta also welcomed Xi's announcement that China will invite 100,000 young Americans to visit China for exchanges and study over the next five years, saying he hoped the United States would also become more open to Chinese scholars and students.

Exchanges like these are an important stabilizing factor in the relationship, he said.

Denis Simon, a senior fellow at the Quincy Institute for Responsible Statecraft, also a Washington-based think tank, pointed out Xi's remarks sent a positive signal, stressing that despite differences and competition, the two countries should strengthen even more cooperation to achieve sustainable development.

There are clear areas of shared interests between the United States and China, Simon said, adding that greater interactions between the two leaders could help lay a stronger foundation of mutual trust and open up a better future.

"These are the world's two largest economies. I can think of no global issue whose meaningful solution can be found without close US-China collaboration," he said.

At the state dinner hosted by Trump at the White House, Xi also highlighted the history of the Chinese and American people standing shoulder to shoulder in the fight against Japanese militarist aggressors during World War II, as well as the story of Ronald Sakolsky, an American teacher who supported China's desert-control efforts. Xi said that such a friendship forged in blood and fire will surely live on through the generations.

Sakolsky said he was deeply moved to hear President Xi mention him at the state dinner, noting that the two leaders had reached a number of agreements during Xi's visit and expressing hope that those understandings would be implemented, as that was what people in both countries wanted.

China-US cooperation seen as important to global stability

The international community also said closer communication and peaceful coexistence between China and the United States could contribute to addressing global challenges and provide a useful example for cooperation among other countries.

Russian President Vladimir Putin said on Friday that Russia welcomed the meeting between the Chinese and US leaders, noting that how and what the world's two largest economies agree on would have an impact on the global economy as well as Russia's own economy.

"Any agreements between China and the United States that have a positive significance are welcome to us," he said.

Former Slovenian President Danilo Turk viewed Xi's visit as important for improving the well-being of people in both countries and maintaining global political and economic stability.

"China has demonstrated the image of a responsible major country," Turk said, adding that he looked forward to China's proposals helping make international cooperation in areas such as artificial intelligence more concrete and effective.

Speaking about the global attention surrounding the meeting, Brazil's Minister of Agriculture and Livestock Andre de Paula said: "As two countries with significant weight in the world, when China and the United States understand and respect each other and build consensus around shared interests, it will make the whole world more optimistic about the future."