TITLE:
Xi's state visit to inject new momentum into China-Egypt ties

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-04

SOURCE:
CCTV English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.cctv.com/2026/09/04/ARTIi0dTNvcgc7HGa64weJ4i260904.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese President Xi Jinping leaves Cairo after paying a state visit to Egypt, September 2, 2026. /Xinhua

Chinese President Xi Jinping returned to Beijing on Thursday after attending the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit 2026 in Bishkek and concluding his state visits to Kyrgyzstan and Egypt.

His visit to Egypt drew widespread attention, with Egyptian experts and scholars saying it will open a new chapter in bilateral relations and provide fresh momentum for deeper cooperation between the two nations.

This year marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. Egyptian observers said Xi's visit will chart a new course for the China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership, strengthen traditional friendship between the two civilizations, and expand cooperation in areas ranging from trade and investment to emerging technologies and cultural exchanges.

Ali El-Hefny, vice chairman of the Egypt-China Friendship Association, said he highly values Xi's vision for developing China-Egypt, China-Arab and China-Africa relations, as well as the four global initiatives – the Global Development Initiative, the Global Security Initiative, the Global Civilization Initiative and the Global Governance Initiative, and the Belt and Road Initiative proposed by the Chinese president.

He expressed hope that the two countries would further expand cooperation, particularly in cutting-edge fields such as artificial intelligence and robotics, enabling Egypt and the wider region to benefit more from China's development experience.

Diaa Helmy, secretary-general of the Egyptian-Chinese Chamber of Commerce, highlighted the growing presence of Chinese companies in Egypt and the steady expansion of Chinese investment in the country.

He said Chinese enterprises have introduced advanced technologies, created jobs, and enhanced Egypt's export capabilities, adding that the continued expansion of cooperation has allowed the benefits of China-Egypt economic cooperation to reach millions of people in both countries.

Starting May 1, 2026, China officially implemented a zero-tariff policy for the 53 African countries with which it has diplomatic relations. Citing the measure as an example, Ahmed Salam, former deputy director of Egypt's State Information Service, said it has created new opportunities for Egypt and other African countries to expand exports and pursue development while opening up broader prospects for China-Africa economic cooperation.

In recent years, China and Egypt have continued to expand their economic and trade cooperation. China's trade with Egypt reached 95.19 billion yuan (about $14.16 billion) in the first seven months of 2026, up 18.7% year on year, Chinese official data shows. Chinese exports to Egypt rose 17.5%, while imports from Egypt jumped 49.4%.

On Wednesday, the two countries issued a joint statement on further deepening their comprehensive strategic partnership, and signed more than 20 cooperation documents.

In the joint statement, the two sides agreed to continue advancing Belt and Road cooperation, support the development of the China-Egypt Suez Economic and Trade Cooperation Zone, and encourage businesses from both countries to cooperate on projects in renewable energy, artificial intelligence, digital transformation and localized manufacturing. They also agreed to expand and strengthen tourism cooperation.

Meanwhile, Alaa Mamdouh Akef, an Egyptian assistant professor of Arabic at Peking University, highlighted the importance of the Global Civilization Initiative proposed by Xi, saying Xi's emphasis on dialogue and mutual learning among civilizations provides important guidance for cultural workers in both countries.

"The dialogue between the ancient Chinese and Egyptian civilizations not only showcases the diversity of human civilizations but also demonstrates the significance of mutual learning and exchanges," he said.

He added that through equal dialogue, academic cooperation and cultural exchanges, different civilizations can deepen mutual understanding and contribute ideas for the progress of human society.