TITLE:
Aircraft, drones help ensure autumn grain harvest in China's Heilongjiang

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-26

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260826/10ff0e5b2ef043b68bf444d4db30ea7b/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
An agricultural aircraft conducts aerial application on a soybean field of a farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Aug. 25, 2026. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Xu Yingxian/Xinhua)
An agricultural aircraft conducts aerial application on a corn field of Geqiushan farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Aug. 22, 2026. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Lu Wenxiang/Xinhua)
An agricultural aircraft conducts aerial application on a soybean field of Geqiushan farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Aug. 22, 2026. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Lu Wenxiang/Xinhua)
An agricultural aircraft conducts aerial application on a soybean field of a farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Aug. 25, 2026. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Xu Yingxian/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Aug. 26, 2026 shows an agricultural aircraft conducting aerial application on a soybean field of Heshan farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Lin Jinchun/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows an agricultural aircraft conducting aerial application on a paddy field of Suibin farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Li Xing/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 26, 2026 shows an agricultural helicopter conducting aerial application on a corn field of Youyi farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Xu Hongyu/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Aug. 25, 2026 shows a plant protection drone conducting spraying operations on a corn field of a farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Wang Jinbin/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Aug. 26, 2026 shows an agricultural aircraft conducting aerial application at a soybean field of Youyi farm under the Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. As the top grain-producing province in China, Heilongjiang boasts large swathes of black soil farmlands and paddy fields, providing ideal conditions for grain production. Aerial application and plant protection operations have been carried out across the Heilongjiang Reclamation Area with the help of aircraft and drones to ensure autumn grain harvest. (Photo by Xu Hongyu/Xinhua)