TITLE:
APEC CEO Summit draws strong global interest with U.S. firms leading registration: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-29

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260929/1b51e2e7b368483f9abeeaabe7dfb91e/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- With 50 days remaining until the opening of the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) CEO Summit 2026, the event has attracted global attention and strong interest from both Chinese and international companies, with U.S. firms being the most active, China's trade promotion body said Tuesday.
U.S. firms have been particularly active in the signing up process and the United States is currently the APEC economy with the largest number of registered companies, said Wang Wenshuai, spokesperson for the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT), at a regular press briefing.
American Fortune Global 500 companies and well-known firms, including Amazon, Walmart, Apple, Google, ExxonMobil and Microsoft, have submitted applications to attend, Wang said.
Wang added that the U.S. firms applying to attend come from multiple sectors, including semiconductors, artificial intelligence, biopharmaceuticals, energy, finance, transportation, logistics, chemicals, aerospace, manufacturing, consumer retail and other fields.
This fully demonstrates the high importance the U.S. business community attaches to participating in Asia-Pacific business cooperation, and the close cooperative relationship between Chinese and U.S. industrial and supply chains, the spokesperson said.
China will host the 33rd APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in Shenzhen, south China's Guangdong Province, from Nov. 18 to 19.
China has chosen the theme "Building an Asia-Pacific Community to Prosper Together" for this year.
During the 2026 APEC "China Year," some 300 events are expected to take place across multiple cities in China.
Hosted by the CCPIT under the theme "promoting prosperity together for a win-win future," the APEC CEO Summit will bring together around 1,000 political and business representatives from APEC economies.
Attendees will discuss topics including the building of the Free Trade Area of the Asia-Pacific, interconnectivity, artificial intelligence, digital economy, the development of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, and sustainable development, according to Wang. ■