TITLE:
Autumn scenery of China's Heilongjiang

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-28

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260928/e1792ff179c746c9a5869d5a506f123b/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows a view of Yichun City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Li Jiaxing/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 26, 2026 shows a view of Jiayin County of Yichun City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Li Shaojun/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Sept. 26, 2026 shows the autumn scenery of Fujin National Wetland Park in Jiamusi City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Geng Xiqing/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 25, 2026 shows a view of the morning glow over Hailin City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Wang Baoxun/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Sept. 21, 2026 shows the autumn scenery of Fujin National Wetland Park in Jiamusi City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Qu Yubao/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 25, 2026 shows the scenery in the morning in Yichun City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Yuan Yong/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Sept. 26, 2026 shows a view of Jiayin County of Yichun City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Li Shaojun/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows the scenery of Jingpo Lake scenic area in Mudanjiang City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Wang Zhe/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows the autumn scenery of Jingpo Lake scenic area in Mudanjiang City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Wang Zhe/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Sept. 26, 2026 shows the autumn scenery of Fujin National Wetland Park in Jiamusi City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Geng Xiqing/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 26, 2026 shows the autumn scenery in Tongjiang City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Liu Wanping/Xinhua)
This photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows the autumn scenery in Baiquan County, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Wang Yonggang/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows the scenery of Jingpo Lake scenic area in Mudanjiang City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Wang Zhe/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows the autumn scenery of Xing'an National Forest Park in Yimei District of Yichun City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province. In autumn, Heilongjiang Province is filled with vibrant colors. Mountains, forests and waters form a picturesque landscape, showcasing the beauty of autumn in northeastern China. (Photo by Li Jiaxing/Xinhua)