TITLE:
China's cultural, tourism market thriving during National Day holiday

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-03

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261003/f460d34594fd419e8800de257555cd88/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A drone photo shows people having fun at a wetland park in Yuhuan, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Duan Junli/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the Tsingtao Beer Museum in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Li Ziheng)
Tourists visit the Slender West Lake scenic spot in Yangzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua)
Tourists visit the Slender West Lake scenic spot in Yangzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua)
Tourists visit the Duojing Tower in Zhenjiang, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua)
A drone photo shows tourists taking a mini train at a rice paddy in Zhongxing Village of Mudanjiang City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Gao Fugui/Xinhua)
A drone photo shows people visiting a night market in Wuzhou, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by He Huawen/Xinhua)
Tourists interact with actors at Yangliuqing ancient town in Tianjin, north China, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Li Ran)
A drone photo shows people watching a drone light show in Nantong, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Xu Congjun/Xinhua)
A drone photo shows tourists visiting the Yellow River's Hukou Waterfall scenic area in Jixian County, north China's Shanxi Province, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Lyu Guiming/Xinhua)
A drone photo shows tourists enjoying scenery by raft on the Yulong River in Yangshuo County of Guilin City, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Jiang Keqing/Xinhua)
Tourists have fun in Beitang Village of Yueqing City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Cai Kuanyuan/Xinhua)
A drone photo shows cruises sailing near the Phoenix Island in Sanya, south China's Hainan Province, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Zhao Yingquan)
Tourists visit Guandu ancient town in Kunming, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Oct. 3, 2026. China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Hu Chao)
Tourists take a sightseeing train through paddy fields at a scenic area in Zunhua, north China's Hebei Province, Oct. 3, 2026. China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Liu Mancang/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Oct. 2, 2026 shows tourists visiting Wujiangzhai scenic spot in Zunyi, southwest China's Guizhou Province. China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Li Renjun/Xinhua)
Tourists watch a performance at the Hetou Old Street scenic area in Fengnan District of Tangshan City, north China's Hebei Province, Oct. 2, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Li Xiuqing/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the Nanhu Lake scenic area in Jiaxing City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Jin Peng/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 3, 2026 shows tourists viewing chrysanthemum at a scenic spot in Xinghua City, east China's Jiangsu Province.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Shi Daozhi/Xinhua)
Tourists watch the outdoor musical "Impression Lijiang" at the Yulong Snow Mountain scenic spot in Lijiang, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Photo by Zhao Qingzu/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the Ciqikou ancient town in southwest China's Chongqing Municipality on Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng)
Tourists visit the Ciqikou ancient town in southwest China's Chongqing Municipality on Oct. 3, 2026.
China's cultural and tourism market is thriving during this year's National Day holiday, with a wide range of options including scenic getaways, autumn outings, tourism with revolutionary topics, nighttime entertainment, and cultural tours featuring the country's intangible cultural heritage. (Xinhua/Chen Cheng)