TITLE:
Chinese modernization offers insights for development paths, says senior Tajik official

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-21

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260821/22ad5b05cd9c4df0b4101d721662d4b7/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
DUSHANBE, Aug. 21 (Xinhua) -- Chinese modernization, a senior Tajik politician has argued, has charted a path distinct from the Western model -- one that offers valuable experience for developing countries seeking a route to modernization suited to their own conditions.
Under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC), China has made remarkable achievements in socioeconomic development, improved people's living standards and strengthened its global influence, Maliksho Nematzoda, first deputy chairman of the ruling People's Democratic Party of Tajikistan, told Xinhua in an interview.
Nematzoda noted that especially since the 18th National Congress of the CPC, China has comprehensively deepened reform, further advanced the fight against corruption, accelerated the transformation of government functions, carried out strategic economic restructuring, and actively implemented the innovation-driven development strategy.
In his view, these measures have laid a solid foundation for the sustained and sound development of the Chinese economy, promoted greater social harmony and stability, and continuously improved people's living standards.
"China's experience lies in its commitment to sustainable development, giving priority to infrastructure development, actively expanding mutually beneficial international cooperation, and other aspects," Nematzoda said.
The Tajik politician noted that China has been committed to a people-centered development philosophy, paying particular attention to improving people's well-being and enhancing their sense of fulfillment with the achievements of development.
He said that this approach has become an important foundation for China's long-term social stability and the sustained improvement of people's living standards, and also provides valuable experience for other countries advancing their modernization.
According to Nematzoda, Chinese modernization is not a ready-made model that can simply be transplanted to other countries.
"It represents a system of governance principles and practical experience that can be applied flexibly in light of the characteristics of each country. Every country should, on the basis of its own history, culture and national conditions, independently explore a development path suited to its own realities, while maintaining independence and at the same time actively integrating into the global economy," he said.
Nematzoda also expressed hope for further strengthening coordination between Tajikistan and China within the framework of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the China-Central Asia mechanism, as well as deepening exchanges and mutual learning between the ruling parties of the two countries.
He voiced confidence that the development of inter-party exchanges will help strengthen political mutual trust, deepen exchanges of governance experience, inject new impetus into the common development of the two countries, and further consolidate the comprehensive strategic partnership between Tajikistan and China.■