TITLE:
China facilitates flow of resources to strengthen regional innovation systems

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-01

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260901/2fbc7747b44b453086bc39f3b0396b91/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 1 (Xinhua) -- China is stepping up efforts to facilitate the flow of innovation resources and strengthen regional innovation systems, said the guests on the latest episode of China Economic Roundtable, an all-media talk show hosted by Xinhua News Agency.
China has vowed to improve regional innovation systems during the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030). The systems bring together government, businesses, universities and research institutes, allowing different regions to better leverage their respective strengths and helping move research findings from laboratories toward commercial applications.
China's three international sci-tech innovation centers are Beijing (Beijing-Tianjin-Hebei), Shanghai (Yangtze River Delta), and the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area.
Facilitating the flow of innovation resources, such as talent, capital, and technology, is a central focus in efforts to strengthen regional innovation systems.
Yi Tong, a researcher with the Beijing Academy of Science and Technology, said at the roundtable that Beijing is taking multiple measures to facilitate the flow and allocation of innovation resources.
The capital city has established the country's first leading group for the integrated development of education, science and technology, and talent, and rolled out three-year action to promote the commercialization of scientific and technological achievements, according to Yi.
In Shanghai, the local authorities have launched a special initiative targeting technology companies, which helps smart technology companies connect with application scenarios, accelerate commercialization and drive development across the entire value chain, said Zha Hao, chairman and CEO of Shanghai Smartlogic Technology.
In the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, efforts are also underway to remove barriers to the cross-regional flow of innovation resources, said Zhang Zhengang, a professor at South China University of Technology.
The region is building innovation platforms to pool resources, forming a model in which Hong Kong contributes scientific research, Guangdong supports commercialization and the global market provides broader opportunities for application, Zhang noted. ■