TITLE:
China opens four high-speed rail lines, expanding national network

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-28

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260928/92a208fad243465f8e8c4f344fc10e59/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Singers from Ankang City perform on G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, in northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
BEIJING, Sept. 28 (Xinhua) -- China, home to the world's largest high-speed rail network, opened four major high-speed railway sections to traffic on Monday, improving transport links across several regions.
The new sections connect Xiong'an in Hebei Province with Shangqiu in Henan Province, Xi'an with Ankang in Shaanxi Province, Yichang with Xingshan in Hubei Province, and Harbin with Yichun in Heilongjiang Province.
Spanning northern, northwestern, central and northeastern China, the new lines will facilitate travel for residents, improve regional connectivity and support economic development. ■
Railway staff pose for a photo with the train G3935, which will pass through the Xiong'an-Shangqiu high-speed railway, at Beijing West Railway Station in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
Constructors pose for a photo with the train G3935, which will pass through the Xiong'an-Shangqiu high-speed railway, at Beijing West Railway Station in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
Constructors, railway staff and passengers pose for a photo on a train running along the Xiong'an-Shangqiu high-speed railway on Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Photo by Wang Guansheng/Xinhua)
An attendant interacts with passengers on a train running along the Xiong'an-Shangqiu high-speed railway on Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
A constructor (L) poses for a photo with a passenger to celebrate the operation of the Xiong'an-Shangqiu high-speed railway at Xiong'an Railway Station in Xiong'an New Area, north China's Hebei Province, on Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Photo by Wang Guansheng/Xinhua)
Passengers show the commemorative cards for the inaugural high-speed train G3946, which runs from Shangqiu to Xiong'an, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Photo by Wang Wei/Xinhua)
Railway staff and passengers pose for a group photo at the Shangqiu Railway Station in Shangqiu City, central China's Henan Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Photo by Lu Jian/Xinhua)
Passengers walk to board the high-speed train G9216 at the Heze East Railway Station in Heze City, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Guo Xulei)
Chief conductor of the high-speed train G3946 stands on duty at the Shangqiu Railway Station in Shangqiu City, central China's Henan Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Photo by Lu Jian/Xinhua)
A high-speed train pulls out of the Shangqiu Railway Station in Shangqiu City, central China's Henan Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Photo by Wang Wei/Xinhua)
Attendants are on duty aboard the high-speed train G9216 at the Heze East Railway Station in Heze City, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Guo Xulei)
An aerial drone photo shows the high-speed train G3950 pulling out of the Heze East Railway Station in Heze City, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Guo Xulei)
A high-speed train, which runs along the Xiong'an-Shangqiu high-speed railway, passes a grand bridge over the Yellow River on Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (China Railway Jinan Group/Handout via Xinhua)
The high-speed train G9216 pulls in the Heze East Railway Station in Heze City, east China's Shandong Province, Sept. 28, 2026. A new railway connecting Xiong'an New Area in north China's Hebei Province with Shangqiu in central China's Henan Province started operation on Monday. The railway travel time between Xiong'an and Shangqiu was shortened to 2 hours and 27 minutes. The 552-kilometer new line is a part of China's artery of the Beijing-Hong Kong Railway. (Xinhua/Guo Xulei)
Train attendants interact with passengers on G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, in northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
A passenger demonstrates cultural and creative products on G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, in northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
Train attendants are seen beside G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, at Xi'an East Railway Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Li Yibo)
Train attendants wave hands beside G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, at Xi'an East Railway Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Li Yibo)
Train attendants are seen beside G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, at Xi'an East Railway Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Li Yibo)
Passengers pass through ticket gates to board G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, at Xi'an East Railway Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Li Yibo)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 22, 2026 shows a view of the newly-built Niubeiliang Station along the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway in northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 22, 2026 shows a view of the newly-built Zhashui West Station along the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway in northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 22, 2026 shows a view of the newly-built Zhen'an West Station along the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway in northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
This photo taken on Sept. 22, 2026 shows a view of the newly-built Ankang West Station along the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway in northwest China's Shaanxi Province. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Xinhua/Shao Rui)
An aerial drone photo shows G9997, the first train of the Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway, arriving at Ankang West Station in northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The Xi'an-Ankang high-speed railway was officially put into operation on Monday, cutting the railway travel time between Xi'an and Ankang to less than one hour. Spanning about 171 kilometers and with a design speed of 350 kilometers per hour, the railway runs through the cities of Xi'an, Shangluo and Ankang in Shaanxi Province and has five stations along the line. (Photo by Xiong Guodong/Xinhua)
The first train of Yichang-Xingshan high-speed railway, G6888, departs from Xingshan Railway Station in Xingshan County, central China's Hubei Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The 101-kilometer Yichang-Xingshan high-speed railway officially entered service on Monday. The railway, with a designed speed of 350 kilometers per hour, is an important part of the country's high-speed rail network. (Photo by Zou Yuanjing/Xinhua)
The first train of Yichang-Xingshan high-speed railway, G6888, is pictured ahead of its departure from Xingshan Railway Station in Xingshan County, central China's Hubei Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The 101-kilometer Yichang-Xingshan high-speed railway officially entered service on Monday. The railway, with a designed speed of 350 kilometers per hour, is an important part of the country's high-speed rail network. (Xinhua/Wang Zichen)
Staff members and tourists pose for photos in front of the Yichunxi Railway Station of the Harbin-Yichun high-speed railway in Yichun, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 28, 2026. China's northernmost high-speed railway, running through a region of discontinuous permafrost in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, officially entered service on Monday.
With a designed speed of 250 kilometers per hour, the 318-km line slashed travel time between Harbin and Yichun from about seven hours to just two hours. (Xinhua/Wang Song)
Tourists poses for selfies in front of the Yichunxi Railway Station of the Harbin-Yichun high-speed railway in Yichun, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 28, 2026. China's northernmost high-speed railway, running through a region of discontinuous permafrost in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, officially entered service on Monday.
With a designed speed of 250 kilometers per hour, the 318-km line slashed travel time between Harbin and Yichun from about seven hours to just two hours. (Photo by Yuan Yong/Xinhua)
A passenger takes photos on the first train of the Harbin-Yichun high-speed railway in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 28, 2026. China's northernmost high-speed railway, running through a region of discontinuous permafrost in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, officially entered service on Monday.
With a designed speed of 250 kilometers per hour, the 318-km line slashed travel time between Harbin and Yichun from about seven hours to just two hours. (Xinhua/Na Yuqi)