TITLE:
China marks 81st anniversary of victory over Japanese aggression, fascism

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260903/b5ff73b243da4c308f175dadb7948e0d/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
People attend a ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders, in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 3, 2026. A ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War was held on Thursday at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders.
Attendees presented flower baskets, recited poems, and sang songs at the event themed on "remember history and cherish peace." (Xinhua/Li Bo)
College students recite poems during a ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders, in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 3, 2026. A ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War was held on Thursday at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders.
Attendees presented flower baskets, recited poems, and sang songs at the event themed on "remember history and cherish peace." (Xinhua/Li Bo)
A chorus performs during a ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders, in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 3, 2026. A ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War was held on Thursday at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders.
Attendees presented flower baskets, recited poems, and sang songs at the event themed on "remember history and cherish peace." (Xinhua/Li Bo)
Staff members present flower baskets during a ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders, in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 3, 2026. A ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War was held on Thursday at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders.
Attendees presented flower baskets, recited poems, and sang songs at the event themed on "remember history and cherish peace." (Xinhua/Li Bo)
A ceremony is held to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders, in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 3, 2026. A ceremony marking the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War was held on Thursday at the Memorial Hall of the Victims in Nanjing Massacre by Japanese Invaders.
Attendees presented flower baskets, recited poems, and sang songs at the event themed on "remember history and cherish peace." (Xinhua/Li Bo)
Students visit a themed exhibition at a memorial hall for the western Yunnan campaign during the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression, in Tengchong, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Photo by Gong Zujin/Xinhua)
An educational event is held to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War at the Museum of the War of the Chinese People's Resistance against Japanese Aggression in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Zhang Chenlin)
Students sing the national anthem at the Northeast China Revolutionary Martyrs' Memorial Hall in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Zhang Tao)
Visitors view a carving artwork themed on the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression at an exhibition hall in Changchun, northeast China's Jilin Province, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Zhang Nan)
A visitor views pictures of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression at an exhibition hall in Changchun, northeast China's Jilin Province, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Xinhua/Zhang Nan)
Students observe a moment of silence at a martyrs' cemetery in Zunhua City, north China's Hebei Province, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Photo by Liu Mancang/Xinhua)
Students pay floral tributes to martyrs at a memorial hall for the western Yunnan campaign during the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression, in Tengchong, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Sept. 3, 2026. China on Thursday held various events to mark the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People's War of Resistance against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. (Photo by Gong Zujin/Xinhua)