TITLE:
China's photovoltaic power capacity overtakes coal-fired power for first time

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-01

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260901/c45a7fc896364cb5aa41810a90686e33/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A drone photo taken on Sept. 2, 2025 shows a new energy base in Kubuqi Desert, north China's Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday. China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Xinhua/Li Zhipeng)
BEIJING, Sept. 1 (Xinhua) -- China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity has surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said on Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, edging past the coal-fired power capacity of 1.285 billion kilowatts, according to the administration.
"This marks a milestone in China's green and low-carbon energy transition," said Liu Zhiqiang, an expert from the China Electricity Council, adding that the country's new power system, with new energy as the mainstay, is taking shape at an accelerated pace.
By the end of July, PV power had accounted for more than 30 percent of China's total installed power generation capacity. Measured by newly added capacity, the share rose to over 40 percent in the first seven months of 2026, underscoring the rapid expansion of the PV sector.
China has built a complete PV industry chain covering research and development, design and integrated manufacturing. Technological advances, including repeated breakthroughs in PV conversion efficiency, have helped drive continuous upgrades and swift cost reductions.
China's speedy development of PV power and other forms of new energy is also making a positive contribution globally.
With the world's largest and fastest-growing renewable energy system, the country supplies over 80 percent of PV modules and 70 percent of wind power equipment around the world, assisting the green transition in many countries.
In particular, amid uncertainties in global supplies of energy and key raw materials, China's growing new energy capacity helped it meet domestic energy demand while contributing to the stability of global energy markets and supply chains, experts said.
Installed capacity, however, does not equate to actual power generation. From January to July, PV power generation totaled 802.4 billion kilowatt-hours, accounting for 13 percent of the country's total electricity consumption.
"PV power is highly intermittent and volatile due to day-night cycles and weather conditions, with utilization hours far lower than those of coal-fired power. In the short term, coal-fired power will remain a major source of support for the power system in China, serving as a backstop for power system security," Liu said.
China is now moving to strengthen the role of renewable energy in ensuring a secure and reliable power supply. Several energy plans for the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030) have set out specific measures to better integrate renewable energy into the power system.
For example, the country aims to achieve around 6 trillion kilowatt-hours in annual renewable power generation by 2030, with wind and PV power generation expected to exceed 4 trillion kilowatt-hours.
China will strive to make PV power more predictable and dispatchable through continued technological innovation and diversified applications, including integrated PV-storage systems and PV hydrogen production, Liu noted. ■
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 27, 2026 shows a view of a photovoltaic power project in Sanxing Town of Shizhu County, southwest China's Chongqing. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Xinhua/Huang Wei)
This photo taken on June 1, 2026 shows an aquaculture-photovoltaic power project in Xiaojiazhuang Town, Liaocheng City, east China's Shandong Province. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Photo by Ma Hongkun/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 30, 2026 shows photovoltaic panels in Wutou Town of Xin'an County in Luoyang, central China's Henan Province. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Photo by Huang Zhengwei/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on May 30, 2026 shows a wind-photovoltaic power project in Yuantou Town of Zanhuang County, north China's Hebei Province. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Xinhua/Yang Shiyao)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows an aquaculture-photovoltaic power project in Gongdao Town of Hanjiang District, Yangzhou City, east China's Jiangsu Province. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Photo by Ren Fei/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 27, 2026 shows an aquaculture-photovoltaic hybrid project in Fengdu County, southwest China's Chongqing. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Xinhua/Huang Wei)
A drone photo taken on May 20, 2026 shows a view of a photovoltaic power station at Ningdong Energy and Chemical Industry Base in northwest China's Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Xinhua/Yang Zhisen)
A drone photo taken on Aug. 25, 2026 shows the rooftop photovoltaic devices of a company in Huzhou City, east China's Zhejiang Province. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Xinhua/Xu Yu)
An aerial drone photo taken on Jan. 6, 2025 shows a view of the Shichengzi photovoltaic power station in Hami City, northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. China's installed photovoltaic (PV) power capacity surpassed coal-fired power capacity for the first time, making PV the country's largest power source by installed capacity, the National Energy Administration said Tuesday.
China's installed PV power capacity reached 1.286 billion kilowatts at the end of July, according to the administration. (Photo by Feng Yang/Xinhua)