TITLE:
Chinese premier stresses faster development of emerging, future industries

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260922/0d6832800ba449f38d178f7615da42f0/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese Premier Li Qiang, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, visits a pilot test base for artificial intelligence (AI) application in Shanghai, east China, Sept. 22, 2026. Li made an inspection tour in Shanghai on Tuesday. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen)
SHANGHAI, Sept. 22 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang on Tuesday called for efforts to vigorously develop next-generation intelligent manufacturing, accelerate the cultivation of emerging and future industries, and continue to expand and strengthen advanced manufacturing.
Li, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks during an inspection tour in Shanghai.
Li called for implementing decisions made at a recent national conference on advanced manufacturing.
At a pilot test base for artificial intelligence (AI) application, Li inspected special-purpose and industrial robots, as well as their applications in complex scenarios, stressing that emerging industries such as AI are advancing rapidly, creating new space for technological innovation and brand upgrading in the manufacturing sector.
He called for combining China's strengths in manufacturing with digital and intelligent technologies, and further implementing the "AI plus manufacturing" to better empower the development of advanced manufacturing.
Li urged efforts to target common challenges in the manufacturing sector, focus on key links such as industrial design, pilot test and intelligent operation and maintenance, and build more manufacturing production and service platforms.
At a sci-tech innovation and incubation platform focused on future industries, Li inspected technological products in fields such as brain-computer interfaces and quantum computing, stressing that future industries are a potential blue ocean for advanced manufacturing.
He called for intensifying research on core technologies, consolidating support for basic research and building a first-class innovation ecosystem.
Given the long growth cycles and high market risks of future industries, Li urged vigorous development of venture capital and expansion of patient capital. ■
Chinese Premier Li Qiang, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, talks with sci-tech innovators and staff members at a sci-tech innovation and incubation platform focused on future industries in Shanghai, east China, Sept. 22, 2026. Li made an inspection tour in Shanghai on Tuesday. (Xinhua/Huang Jingwen)