TITLE:
China opens exhibition hall on language preservation, diversity

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260824/d5d66de8b4fd42e5a4875436eedb67ed/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A visitor listens to dialects of various regions in Hunan at the Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China in Changsha, central China's Hunan Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A new exhibition hall dedicated to the preservation of China's diverse language resources opened on Monday in Changsha, capital of central China's Hunan Province, bringing a decade-long effort to document languages and dialects to the public through digital and interactive displays. The Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China, located in the Hunan Museum, brings together recordings and other language materials collected from more than 1,800 field survey sites across China, covering Chinese dialects, ethnic minority languages and related cultural traditions. (Xinhua/Xue Yuge)
CHANGSHA, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- A new exhibition hall dedicated to the preservation of China's diverse language resources opened on Monday in Changsha, capital of central China's Hunan Province, bringing a decade-long effort to document languages and dialects to the public through digital and interactive displays.
The Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China, located in the Hunan Museum, brings together recordings and other language materials collected from more than 1,800 field survey sites across China, covering Chinese dialects, ethnic minority languages and related cultural traditions.
More than 30 language-related cultural relics are also on display.
The exhibition features original sound recordings representing 10 major Chinese dialects and more than 100 ethnic minority languages, including Mongolian, Tibetan, Uygur and Zhuang, said Chen Xuliang, deputy Party secretary of the Hunan Museum.
Visitors can listen to regional dialects, folk songs and field recordings of some endangered languages, while interactive installations allow them to explore the development and diversity of languages across China, Chen added.
The exhibition draws on materials collected through a national language preservation project launched in 2015 to document and preserve the country's diverse languages and dialects. It is the world's largest project of its kind, according to experts.
An alliance was also launched on Monday, bringing together universities and research institutions to promote the use of language technologies in areas including education, scientific research and cultural preservation. ■
People visit the Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China in Changsha, central China's Hunan Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A new exhibition hall dedicated to the preservation of China's diverse language resources opened on Monday in Changsha, capital of central China's Hunan Province, bringing a decade-long effort to document languages and dialects to the public through digital and interactive displays.
The Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China, located in the Hunan Museum, brings together recordings and other language materials collected from more than 1,800 field survey sites across China, covering Chinese dialects, ethnic minority languages and related cultural traditions. (Xinhua/Xue Yuge)
This photo taken on Aug. 24, 2026 shows an interior view of the Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China in Changsha, central China's Hunan Province. A new exhibition hall dedicated to the preservation of China's diverse language resources opened on Monday in Changsha, capital of central China's Hunan Province, bringing a decade-long effort to document languages and dialects to the public through digital and interactive displays.
The Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China, located in the Hunan Museum, brings together recordings and other language materials collected from more than 1,800 field survey sites across China, covering Chinese dialects, ethnic minority languages and related cultural traditions. (Xinhua/Xue Yuge)
Children perform at the opening ceremony of the Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China in Changsha, central China's Hunan Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A new exhibition hall dedicated to the preservation of China's diverse language resources opened on Monday in Changsha, capital of central China's Hunan Province, bringing a decade-long effort to document languages and dialects to the public through digital and interactive displays.
The Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China, located in the Hunan Museum, brings together recordings and other language materials collected from more than 1,800 field survey sites across China, covering Chinese dialects, ethnic minority languages and related cultural traditions. (Xinhua/Xue Yuge)
Exhibits of oracle bone inscriptions are displayed at the Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China in Changsha, central China's Hunan Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A new exhibition hall dedicated to the preservation of China's diverse language resources opened on Monday in Changsha, capital of central China's Hunan Province, bringing a decade-long effort to document languages and dialects to the public through digital and interactive displays.
The Exhibition Hall of the Project for the Protection of Language Resources of China, located in the Hunan Museum, brings together recordings and other language materials collected from more than 1,800 field survey sites across China, covering Chinese dialects, ethnic minority languages and related cultural traditions. (Xinhua/Xue Yuge)