TITLE:
China's transportation network sees travel peak on first day of National Day holiday

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-01

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261001/10de3fc4e820470c951f1393d7d88e05/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Passengers are seen at a platform of Lianyungang East Railway Station in Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wang Chun/Xinhua)
Passengers check in at Jiaxing South Railway Station in Jiaxing City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Jin Peng/Xinhua)
Passengers walk out of the Harbin Railway Station in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Xu Shuai/Xinhua)
Passengers wait for trains at the waiting hall of Harbin Railway Station in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Xu Shuai/Xinhua)
Passengers check in at Lianyungang Railway Station in Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Geng Yuhe/Xinhua)
Passengers are seen at Hankou Railway Station in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)
Passengers are seen at a platform of Nanjing Railway Station in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Yang Suping/Xinhua)
Passengers wait for trains at the waiting hall of Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station in east China's Shanghai, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Wang Xiang)
Passengers walk out of Shanghai Hongqiao Railway Station in east China's Shanghai, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Wang Xiang)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 1, 2026 shows the traffic flow on the Nanjing Yangtze River Bridge in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Yang Suping/Xinhua)
Passengers wait for trains at the waiting hall of Xi'an North Railway Station in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhang Xin/Xinhua)
Passengers walk out of Nanjing Railway Station in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 1, 2026. The transportation network of the country witnessed a travel peak on the first day of the National Day holiday. (Photo by Su Yang/Xinhua)