TITLE:
China revamps commercial spaces with immersive experiences to spur consumption

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-04

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260904/235d56259e2b4fe69aafb6dac31aa386/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CHONGQING, Sept. 4 (Xinhua) -- Sipping tea in repurposed old movie theaters, wandering indoor rainforests while dining at modern malls, young consumers are reshaping China's retail landscape where creative, immersive enjoyment takes center stage.
At the Sino-Swiss Technological Innovation Park in southwest China's Chongqing Municipality, a rooftop commercial cluster "aa market" hosts dozens of independent brands, specialty restaurants, and indoor healing gardens.
"I feel relaxed as soon as I come. I want to stay longer, unlike in a traditional shopping mall where everything feels fast-paced," said Sui Yu, a visitor to the site that draws on brutalist-infused industrial aesthetics.
Jiang Hao, manager of the project, said stores focusing on a single product category have become magnets for niche buyers, and specialized retail is set to become a major consumer trend in the years ahead.
The rise of these one-of-a-kind venues mirrors shifting consumer priorities. Across the country, various new models are emerging, weaving shopping together with culture, entertainment and leisure activities.
In Gaomi City, east China's Shandong Province, famous as the backdrop for Zhang Yimou's breakout film "Red Sorghum," a themed night event offers immersive performances, interactive activities and local cultural experiences at the Red Sorghum Town.
Roughly 100 km from Gaomi, visitors to the Qingdao International Beer Festival can map out their own itineraries and join a wide range of nighttime events, moving from passive onlookers to active participants.
Historic buildings are also receiving new life through careful renovation and adaptive reuse.
In Chongqing, Jiangling Teahouse occupies a former cinema built in the 1950s that was formerly affiliated with a state-owned factory. It keeps the original architectural structure intact while weaving in elements of traditional tea culture.
"We hope to create a space that combines everyday life with memories of the past," said Long Yanji, marketing director of Chongqing Feibiao Cultural Creativity Co., Ltd.
About 70 percent of the teahouse's visitors are middle-aged or elderly residents, many former workers at nearby factories or their relatives, Long said. Their patronage has breathed new life into the aging venue, which also draws young visitors and tourists.
Beyond heritage-themed teahouses, established shopping complexes are reinventing themselves to match evolving consumer expectations.
At The Ring shopping mall in Chongqing, visitors can stroll through an indoor tropical rainforest dotted with plants, waterfalls and streams while shopping and dining.
"It is a fresh experience to enjoy the scenery and go shopping in the same place," said Liu Yaoze, a tourist from central China's Henan Province, who was visiting with his girlfriend.
From repurposed historic buildings and cultural venues to immersive commercial complexes, innovative consumption scenarios are expanding the boundaries of shopping and leisure in China, which is also boosted by optimized policies.
In July, China released a special plan under the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030) framework to expand consumption, calling for developing novel consumption scenarios and encouraging commercial areas to adopt more immersive, interactive designs in a bid to generate lasting economic growth.
China's total retail sales of goods and services, a major indicator of the country's consumption strength, rose 2.6 percent year on year in the first seven months of 2026, official data showed. Services retail sales increased by 5 percent in the January-July period, while goods retail sales climbed by 1.1 percent.
With further measures to expand and upgrade consumer goods consumption, the country expects to better tap the potential of its vast market, bringing total retail sales of consumer goods to around 60 trillion yuan (about 8.85 trillion U.S. dollars) by 2030, according to officials with the Ministry of Commerce and the National Development and Reform Commission. ■