TITLE:
China to work with all countries to build a community with a shared future for humanity: VP

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-27

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260927/82b7db497b9d4cd4a0230e5c6d55635a/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese Vice President Han Zheng delivers a speech at the general debate of the 81st session of the United Nations General Assembly at the UN headquarters in New York on Sept. 26, 2026. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)
UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 27 (Xinhua) -- China will join hands with all other countries to build a community with a shared future for humanity and make the world a better place for all, said Chinese Vice President Han Zheng on Saturday.
Han made the remarks when delivering a speech at the general debate of the 81st session of the United Nations General Assembly.
The world is witnessing intertwined changes and turbulence, protracted geopolitical conflicts, widening development gaps and a growing number of global challenges, he said.
Noting that Chinese President Xi Jinping put forward the Global Development Initiative at the 76th Session of the UN General Assembly, and has since then proposed the Global Security Initiative, the Global Civilization Initiative and the Global Governance Initiative, Han said these initiatives provide strategic guidance for the building of a community with a shared future for humanity.
He said that more and more countries want to join hands to shoulder the historic mission of addressing difficulties and challenges, and advancing the well-being of all humanity.
Han put forward four proposals:
First, safeguard the postwar international order and foster lasting peace based on common security. Turn into action the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable security, and reject the Cold War mindset and bloc confrontation.
Settle differences and disputes through dialogue and consultation, and oppose unilateral military actions that violate the UN Charter and circumvent Security Council authorization.
Second, address the global development predicament and promote prosperity for all through openness and cooperation. Keep development at the center of the international agenda, and jointly forge a global development partnership based on unity and equality and that is balanced and inclusive.
Give priority to key areas including poverty reduction, food security and energy transition, step up resource input, and increase support for countries in the Global South. Take a people-centered approach, strive for the positive and for good, and make efforts to narrow the digital divide.
Firmly safeguard the multilateral trading system, build an open world economy, and see that economic globalization is inclusive and delivers benefits to all.
Third, advance exchanges and mutual learning among civilizations and rebuild unity and mutual trust through communication and dialogue. Use the UN platform to boost international people-to-people exchanges, promote mutual understanding and amity among all peoples and the common development of diverse civilizations.
Reject ideological prejudice, and respect the development paths and social systems decided on independently by the people of all countries. Deepen the sharing of governance practices and jointly explore ways to tackle challenges facing our times.
Fourth, stay committed to multilateralism and take steps to safeguard fairness and justice. China holds that all countries, big or small, are equal members of the international community, and that world affairs should be handled by all through consultation, and rule of law, fairness and justice in international affairs should be jointly upheld.
Countries should join forces and act together to safeguard the UN and make it stronger. China supports the UN in reforming and improving itself, and in effectively addressing global challenges including climate change and public health security.
Han pointed out that the People's Republic of China restored its lawful seat in the United Nations in 1971, which is of profound and far-reaching significance for both China and the world.
Over the past 55 years, China has been a stabilizing force in times of volatility, he said, noting that China is firmly committed to pursuing peaceful development, and has the best track record on peace and security among major countries.
A main engine driving common development, China has created two miracles at home, namely, fast economic growth and long-term social stability, and it has, over many years, contributed around 30 percent to global growth, Han said.
He said that China, a progressive force in an era of change, has always stood up for the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries, and worked toward a more just and equitable global governance system.
Han said that no matter how the international dynamics evolve, China remains unchanged in its pursuit of peace and development, in its dedication to safeguarding fairness and justice, and in its commitment to multilateralism.
During his stay in New York, Han had separate meetings with Bulgarian President Iliana Iotova, Serbian President Aleksandar Vucic, Cypriot President Nikos Christodoulides, Ghanaian President John Dramani Mahama, and Kiribati President Taneti Maamau.
The presidents spoke highly of the major ideas and initiatives proposed by Xi, expressed admiration for China's development achievements, and reaffirmed their governments' firm adherence to the one-China principle.
They also expressed willingness to further enhance strategic mutual trust with China, deepen practical cooperation, strengthen multilateral coordination, and make greater contributions to the well-being of the people and global sustainable development. ■
Chinese Vice President Han Zheng delivers a speech at the general debate of the 81st session of the United Nations General Assembly at the UN headquarters in New York on Sept. 26, 2026. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)