TITLE:
China issues multiple alerts for rainstorms, typhoons

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260824/a3de8d4305e645688cf2ae83acd49f8a/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- China's National Meteorological Center (NMC) on Monday issued blue alerts for typhoons and severe convective weather and a yellow alert for rainstorms, with multiple typhoons forecast to bring heavy rainfall and strong winds to parts of the country.
The China Meteorological Administration also raised its emergency response for major meteorological disasters from Level IV to Level III around Monday noon.
Heavy rainfall is expected in parts of Fujian, Guangdong, Guangxi and Hainan from Monday to Wednesday, according to the NMC. Strong winds are also forecast over the Beibu Gulf, the Taiwan Strait and the East China Sea, as well as their coastal areas.
Some areas of Liaoning and Jilin will see heavy rainfall on Monday, while a significant rain spell is expected to sweep eastward through the eastern part of northwest China, north China and northeast China from Tuesday, accompanied by severe convective weather, the NMC said.
Typhoon Narra, the 19th typhoon of the year, was located at 4 p.m. Monday in waters about 260 kilometers southwest of Beihai City in south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, with maximum winds of 23 meters per second near its center.
It is expected to track eastward from Monday night and then travel northward at a speed of 5 to 10 kilometers per hour, gradually approaching the coastal areas from Guangxi to the western Leizhou Peninsula in Guangdong Province, according to the NMC.
China's National Development and Reform Commission has allocated 50 million yuan (about 7.37 million U.S. dollars) in the central budget to support emergency recovery in Guangxi, where Typhoon Narra has already brought severe rainfall and floods.
The fund will focus on restoring damaged roads, water infrastructure, schools and hospitals to help resume normal production and daily life as soon as possible, according to the commission.
Typhoon Gaenari, the 20th typhoon of the year, made landfall along the coast of Quanzhou in east China's Fujian Province at around 12:30 p.m. on Monday, the local meteorological observatory said.
Meanwhile, the NMC said Typhoon Saudel, this year's 18th typhoon, is expected to enter the East China Sea on Wednesday and gradually approach the coastal areas of east China.
The NMC has advised local governments to take precautionary measures.
China has a four-tier color-coded weather warning system, with red representing the most severe, followed by orange, yellow and blue. ■