TITLE:
China launches anti-dumping probe into EU p-Nitrotoluene imports

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-03

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261003/730d29862488401895388d5807142912/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Oct. 3 (Xinhua) -- China has launched an anti-dumping investigation into imports of p-Nitrotoluene from the European Union (EU), the Ministry of Commerce said Saturday.
According to the ministry's statement, it received a formal application on Sept. 14, 2026, from two domestic producers representing China's p-Nitrotoluene industry, requesting an anti-dumping investigation into imports from the EU.
In response to a media query, a ministry spokesperson said preliminary evidence submitted by the applicants showed that the volume of p-Nitrotoluene imports from the EU remained at a high level from 2022 to 2025, with prices falling by nearly 60 percent cumulatively over the period. The dumped imports from the EU caused damage to the production and operations of China's domestic industry, the spokesperson said.
The spokesperson pointed out that the application met the requirements for initiating an anti-dumping investigation under Chinese law and World Trade Organization rules, adding that China will conduct the investigation in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, fully protect the rights of all interested parties, and render an objective and impartial ruling.
Noting that China has consistently taken a prudent and restrained approach to trade remedy measures, the spokesperson said the EU has launched 28 trade remedy investigations against China since 2025, about half of them involving chemical products, including three recent consecutive investigations into Chinese chemical products such as polyvinyl chloride.
China has repeatedly called on the EU to face up to its own economic and trade issues and address each other's concerns through dialogue and consultation, the spokesperson said.
According to the statement, the investigation began on Saturday and is expected to conclude before Oct. 3, 2027. It may be extended by six months under special circumstances.
P-Nitrotoluene, also known as 4-Nitrotoluene, is mainly used to produce chemicals that are widely applied in dyes, pigments, pesticides, and pharmaceuticals, according to the ministry. ■