TITLE:
China urges the Philippines to stop playing up South China Sea issue in multilateral fora

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-29

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260929/b24a171b8c8c458fbd3e2b3be7b0a904/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese envoy said Monday that the Philippines should stop playing up the South China Sea issue in multilateral fora and should, instead, return to the bilateral track.
In exercising the right of reply at the General Debate of the 81st session of the UN General Assembly, Sun Lei, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, said that with regard to the Philippine statement delivered at the debate on Saturday, China has consistently maintained that the United Nations is not the appropriate forum to discuss the South China Sea issue.
However, he said, China finds it necessary to issue a solemn response to the relevant erroneous claims by the Philippines.
China's position on the so-called "South China Sea arbitration" has been consistent and clear, Sun said. The Philippines' unilateral initiation of arbitration violates fundamental principles of international law, including state consent and pacta sunt servanda, and contravenes the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, he added.
The "arbitral tribunal" exceeded its authority and abused its jurisdiction. The so-called "award" it rendered is illegal, null and void. China neither accepts nor recognizes the "award," and opposes and will never accept any claim or action arising from it, said Sun.
This is both to safeguard China's own territorial and maritime rights and interests and to uphold the international maritime rule of law and a fair and equitable international maritime order, he said.
The Philippine attempt to play up the 10th anniversary of the so-called "award" is utterly meaningless. The fact is that the "award" has not only failed to resolve the maritime issues between China and the Philippines, but has also exacerbated regional tensions, becoming a stumbling block to China-Philippines relations and to peace and stability in the South China Sea, he said.
China does not accept any imposed solution with respect to territorial issues and maritime delimitation disputes, and remains committed to resolving the disputes through negotiation and consultation with countries directly concerned. China will continue to work with members of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations to jointly safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea, he said.
China urges the Philippines to stop playing up the issue in multilateral fora, return as soon as possible to the right track of bilateral consultations, work with China to manage South China Sea disputes, and work together to safeguard peace and stability in the South China Sea, said Sun. ■