TITLE:
China's railway passenger trips hit record single-day high

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-02

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261002/7b28e2bf7547494bb33aa6035917f583/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- China's railway network handled 25.204 million passenger trips on Oct. 1, the first day of the week-long National Day holiday, setting a new single-day record, China State Railway Group Co., Ltd. (China Railway) said Friday.
On Oct. 2, the railway network is expected to handle 20.39 million passenger trips, with 1,462 additional trains scheduled to accommodate the high demand, the company said.
Passenger ticket pre-sales show that Friday's popular departure cities include Beijing, Guangzhou, Shanghai, Chengdu, Shenzhen, Hangzhou, Wuhan, Xi'an, Zhengzhou and Nanjing, while popular arrival cities include Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Hangzhou, Shanghai, Wuhan, Xi'an, Zhengzhou, Nanjing and Changsha.
Routes such as Xi'an-Chengdu round trips, and Beijing to Shenyang, Zhengzhou and Qingdao are among the busiest.
Railway authorities across the country have strengthened transport organization and implemented measures to ensure safe, convenient and comfortable travel.
The China Railway Taiyuan Group has coordinated with local transport departments and scenic spots to add shuttle buses linking Datong South Station with the Yungang Grottoes, a UNESCO World Heritage site featuring over 50,000 Buddhist stone sculptures, and the Hengshan Mountain scenic area in north China's Shanxi Province.
The China Railway Hohhot Group has added 11 multiple-unit trains on the Baotou-Wuhai section of the Baotou-Yinchuan high-speed railway.
The China Railway Wuhan Group, tapping the newly opened Yichang-Xingshan high-speed railway, has launched a promotion campaign with local governments in Yichang and Xingshan, offering passengers exclusive discounts at scenic spots, hotels and homestays with their train tickets.
China Railway expects some 284 million passenger trips during the Mid-Autumn Festival and National Day holiday period, which extends from Sept. 23 to Oct. 8. ■