TITLE:
China holds exhibition to mark 90th anniversary of Long March victory

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260922/aba06bebbc32427b9c0e1e7d75342c32/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Cai Qi, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and a member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, addresses the opening ceremony of a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 22, 2026. The exhibition opened Tuesday at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing. (Xinhua/Yan Yan)
BEIJING, Sept. 22 (Xinhua) -- A themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March opened Tuesday at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing.
In his address at the opening ceremony, Cai Qi, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and a member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, said the victory stunned the world and continues to shine in the annals of history.
Cai stressed that the victory of the Long March marked a great turning point for the CPC and the Chinese revolution, and stands as a towering monument in the historic process of the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.
The Long March was an epic military trek from 1934 to 1936, during which the CPC-led Red Army broke through encirclement by Kuomintang forces. Red Army soldiers braved raging rivers, snow-covered mountains and treacherous grasslands, with some marching as far as 12,500 kilometers. The maneuver helped lay the foundation for the eventual victory of the Chinese revolution.
Cai said the spirit forged through the sacrifices of Chinese Communists and Red Army soldiers continues to inspire the Chinese people to overcome difficulties and advance from victory to victory.
The exhibition provides an important platform for education on ideals and convictions, patriotism and revolutionary traditions, he said, calling for carrying forward the Long March spirit on the new journey.
The exhibition comprises seven main sections, including the Zunyi Meeting, major military operations and the enduring legacy of the Long March. English captions accompany each exhibit.
The exhibition takes up approximately 3,300 square meters on the western side of the museum's third floor, with a display route stretching more than 760 meters.
It features 875 cultural relics or sets of relics, a substantial increase from previous exhibitions in 2006 and 2016. The museum also said it is displaying 186 historical documents, 357 photographs and charts, 73 artworks and 16 videos.
According to the museum, more than 300 relics and documents are being exhibited for the first time, accounting for approximately 28 percent of the total number of relics and documents on display.
The exhibition also presents 60 stories from the Long March. It features 14 scenes depicting key episodes, including the Battle of the Xiangjiang River, the Zunyi Meeting and the Four Crossings of the Chishui River.
About 600 people, including officials, military personnel and representatives from various walks of life, attended the opening ceremony. Cai and other leaders toured the exhibition with members of the public afterward. ■
Cai Qi, a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and a member of the Secretariat of the CPC Central Committee, visits a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 22, 2026. The exhibition opened Tuesday at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing. Cai addressed the opening ceremony of the exhibition and declared it open. (Xinhua/Yan Yan)
A woman visits a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution during a media preview in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 21, 2026. The exhibition opened here on Tuesday, taking up approximately 3,300 square meters on the western side of the museum's third floor, with a display route stretching more than 760 meters. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
An exhibit is pictured during a media preview of a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 21, 2026. The exhibition opened here on Tuesday, taking up approximately 3,300 square meters on the western side of the museum's third floor, with a display route stretching more than 760 meters. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
A man visits a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 22, 2026. The exhibition opened here on Tuesday, taking up approximately 3,300 square meters on the western side of the museum's third floor, with a display route stretching more than 760 meters. (Photo by Zhong Yi/Xinhua)
People visit a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 22, 2026. The exhibition opened here on Tuesday, taking up approximately 3,300 square meters on the western side of the museum's third floor, with a display route stretching more than 760 meters. (Photo by Zhong Yi/Xinhua)
A woman visits a themed exhibition commemorating the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March at the Military Museum of the Chinese People's Revolution during a media preview in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 21, 2026. The exhibition opened here on Tuesday, taking up approximately 3,300 square meters on the western side of the museum's third floor, with a display route stretching more than 760 meters. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)