TITLE:
China's railway network sees travel peak ahead of National Day holiday

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260930/6a4a8dd77c344f91bbd90007ced364b6/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Passengers prepare to board a train at Nanjing South Railway Station in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Photo by Su Yang/Xinhua)
Passengers are seen at Nanjing South Railway Station in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Photo by Su Yang/Xinhua)
Passengers arrive at Xuzhou East Railway Station in Xuzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhang Guanglei/Xinhua)
Passengers prepare to board a train at Nanjing South Railway Station in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Photo by Su Yang/Xinhua)
Passengers are seen at the waiting hall of Xiamen Railway Station in Xiamen, southeast China's Fujian Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Photo by Zeng Demeng/Xinhua)
Passengers queue up to check in at Nanjing South Railway Station in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Photo by Su Yang/Xinhua)
Passengers are on their way to board a train at Hefei Railway Station in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
A staff member guides passengers at a platform of Hefei Railway Station in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
Passengers are seen at Hefei Railway Station in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
Passengers prepare to board a train at Hefei Railway Station in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 30, 2026. China's railway network saw a peak in passenger flow on Wednesday, one day before the beginning of the seven-day National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)