TITLE:
Chinese premier chairs State Council executive meeting

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260911/be68151822174387833bbe6c52e21ffe/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang on Friday chaired a State Council executive meeting to make further arrangements on ensuring workplace safety.
Workplace safety accidents have occurred frequently in recent times, with profound lessons to be learned, the meeting said. It urged an in-depth investigation into the causes of these accidents and strong measures to address the problems identified.
Efforts should be made to further tighten workplace safety responsibilities and address risks and potential hazards in key industries and areas, it said.
Any violations of laws and regulations must be dealt with resolutely to firmly uphold the bottom line of workplace safety, effectively curb major accidents, and safeguard people's lives and property, according to the meeting.
The meeting also reviewed progress on developing computing networks and upgrading aging reservoirs.
Computing networks provide the fundamental support for the development of artificial intelligence, the meeting said, calling for efforts to improve computing infrastructure and actively advance the research, development and application of key technologies and equipment.
Coordinated development of computing capacity and electricity supply, as well as the integration of computing and communications networks, should be promoted, said the meeting.
The role of market mechanisms should be better leveraged to support enterprises in technological innovation and application as well as resource integration, it added.
The meeting stressed the need to comprehensively improve the safety of aging reservoirs and make their renovation and upgrading more targeted and effective.
Noting the achievements over the past year in elevating China to a leading country in education, the meeting called for the appropriate allocation of educational resources in response to changes in the school-age population to better meet the needs arising from enrollment peaks at different stages of education.
To meet national strategic needs, efforts should focus on cultivating outstanding innovative talent, continuously optimizing the structure of academic disciplines and majors, strengthening the development of textbook systems, and improving talent training models, according to the meeting.
The meeting also advocated for a health-first approach to education, aiming to promote students' physical and mental well-being as well as their all-round development.
The meeting also reviewed and approved a draft revision to the Regulation on the Administration of Foundations. Greater efforts should be made to strengthen the credibility of foundations, further standardize their management and improve relevant systems, so as to promote the sound and orderly development of China's public interest activities and charities, it said. ■