TITLE:
China upholds principles, promotes dialogue at G20 trade ministers' meeting: commerce ministry

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-04

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261004/27c31707e4b942ebb6a65504e8b97121/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Oct. 4 (Xinhua) -- China played an active role in promoting dialogue and cooperation with other G20 members while upholding principles during the recent G20 trade ministers' meeting, the country's Ministry of Commerce said on Sunday.
The ministry spokesperson made the remarks in response to a media question about the meeting, which was held on Sept. 30 and Oct. 1 in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the United States.
Members exchanged views on issues proposed by the U.S. G20 presidency, including opposing the weaponization of food, addressing overcapacity, eliminating forced labor, and adjusting the Most-Favored-Nation (MFN) principle.
Members reached a joint statement opposing the weaponization of food, while no outcome documents were issued on the remaining matters, according to the ministry.
During the meeting, the Chinese side consistently upheld an attitude of openness and cooperation, constructively participated in discussions and maintained close communication with other members, fully playing its role in promoting dialogue and cooperation, said the spokesperson.
At the same time, China adhered to its principles, resolutely safeguarded the common interests of China and other developing countries, and worked to promote unity and cooperation within the G20, the ministry added.
Regarding the food issue, many emerging market and developing members, including China, put forward the view that food-importing and food-exporting countries should jointly safeguard the stability of food supply chains, and that all parties have the right to take measures for domestic public policy objectives and to safeguard food security, the spokesperson said.
The presidency gave positive consideration to these views, which were also fully reflected in the joint statement, the spokesperson said, adding that the outcome was the result of consensus-building and the joint efforts of all G20 members.
Issues such as overcapacity and forced labor were highly controversial from the outset, said the ministry. The ministry said that at present, G20 members are generally subject to additional Section 301 tariffs under the pretext of so-called "forced labor" and are mostly targets of Section 301 investigations over the so-called "overcapacity" issue.
Against this backdrop, many members put forward different views on the issues set by the presidency, and the meeting ultimately failed to produce outcome documents on these matters, the ministry said.
The spokesperson also noted that, after the meeting, the U.S. side issued a chair's statement mentioning that it had released a statement on forced labor with two other G20 countries outside the G20 framework.
On the issue of reforming the MFN treatment principle, the vast majority of members, including China, emphasized that the principle is the cornerstone of the multilateral trading system, providing stability and predictability for global trade, and that any undermining of this principle would seriously damage the foundation of the multilateral trading system, said the ministry.
In light of the views expressed by the members, the presidency did not propose an outcome document on this topic, the ministry revealed.
Looking ahead to the G20 Leaders' Summit in December 2026, the spokesperson said that China is ready to work with the G20 presidency and all members to uphold consensus-building, and jointly contribute positive and practical economic and trade outcomes to the summit. ■