TITLE:
Citizens enjoy outdoor exercises at Nanhu Park in Nanning, China's Guangxi

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-09

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261009/951e96df6cb8402e838383f242982701/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Citizens jog and stride at Nanhu Park in Nanning, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 9, 2026. Located in the very heart of Nanning, Nanhu Park is widely known as the city's "green lung." Locals jog along the lakeside, stride on the promenades, and practice Taijiquan in the shade of ancient trees, fully immersing in the simple pleasure of outdoor exercises. (Xinhua/Zhang Ailin)
Citizens jog at Nanhu Park in Nanning, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 9, 2026. Located in the very heart of Nanning, Nanhu Park is widely known as the city's "green lung." Locals jog along the lakeside, stride on the promenades, and practice Taijiquan in the shade of ancient trees, fully immersing in the simple pleasure of outdoor exercises. (Xinhua/Zhang Ailin)
A man practices Taijiquan at Nanhu Park in Nanning, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 9, 2026. Located in the very heart of Nanning, Nanhu Park is widely known as the city's "green lung." Locals jog along the lakeside, stride on the promenades, and practice Taijiquan in the shade of ancient trees, fully immersing in the simple pleasure of outdoor exercises. (Xinhua/Zhang Ailin)
Citizens do exercises at Nanhu Park in Nanning, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 9, 2026. Located in the very heart of Nanning, Nanhu Park is widely known as the city's "green lung." Locals jog along the lakeside, stride on the promenades, and practice Taijiquan in the shade of ancient trees, fully immersing in the simple pleasure of outdoor exercises. (Xinhua/Zhang Ailin)
Citizens jog along the lakeside at Nanhu Park in Nanning, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 9, 2026. Located in the very heart of Nanning, Nanhu Park is widely known as the city's "green lung." Locals jog along the lakeside, stride on the promenades, and practice Taijiquan in the shade of ancient trees, fully immersing in the simple pleasure of outdoor exercises. (Xinhua/Zhang Ailin)