TITLE:
Construction of China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-30

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260830/2a43ea5daebe4a049c45aaf63460ab49/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BRI Stories | Construction of China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative-Xinhua
BRI Stories | Construction of China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative
Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2026-08-30 21:31:15
An aerial drone photo taken on May 9, 2026 shows a village road repaired by a project department of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Photo by Ren Weiyun/Xinhua)
BISHKEK, Aug. 30 (Xinhua) -- The China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway is a flagship project of the Belt and Road Initiative, personally promoted by the heads of state of China, Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan.
The route begins in Kashgar, located in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, and passes through the mountainous terrain of Kyrgyzstan to reach Uzbekistan.
It has become a strategic corridor benefiting all the three countries and their peoples, contributing to regional economic and social development and playing a significant role in promoting infrastructure connectivity, economic and trade exchanges, and high-quality development of the Belt and Road.
An aerial drone photo taken on July 18, 2026 shows a construction site of a subgrade section of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway. (Photo by Ren Weiyun/Xinhua)An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 15, 2026 shows a construction site of a grand bridge above the Kec-Alat River along the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)Chinese construction workers are pictured in the Jalalabad tunnel of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan, Feb. 13, 2026. (Photo by Ren Weiyun/Xinhua)This photo taken on Aug. 15, 2026 shows workers at a construction site of a grand bridge above the Kec-Alat River along the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)A drone photo taken on Aug. 15, 2026 shows a construction site of a grand bridge above the Kec-Alat River along the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 15, 2026 shows the construction site of the Jalalabad tunnel of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)A drone photo taken on Aug. 15, 2026 shows workers at a construction site of a grand bridge above the Kec-Alat River along the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)Construction workers are pictured in the Jalalabad tunnel of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 15, 2026. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)Engineering and technical personnel from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan learn from a Chinese construction team about subgrade construction in Naryn Oblast, Kyrgyzstan, Sept. 18, 2025. (Photo by Ren Weiyun/Xinhua)This photo taken on Aug. 15, 2026 shows a tray of food provided in a canteen for local employees set up by a project department of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway in Jalalabad, Kyrgyzstan. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)An aerial drone photo taken on June 21, 2026 shows a construction site of a grand bridge along the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway. (Photo by Ren Weiyun/Xinhua)■