TITLE:
Day 13 roundup: China's Wang Xiyu wins tennis gold, virtual sports make debut

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-02

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261002/1c35eca913d643a2bc4cdbaf8aa66ec5/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
by sportswriter Li Jia
NAGOYA, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- China's tennis player Wang Xiyu claimed the women's singles title on Friday while virtual sports made its debut at the Aichi-Nagoya Games.
Virtual taekwondo opened a new chapter at the Asian Games on the day. The discipline brought together 16 athletes from 15 teams in a mixed-gender elimination tournament. Taekwondo specialists, equipped with virtual reality headsets and sensors, took to the stage at the Continental Games for the first time.
Jeus Gabriel Derick Yape from the Philippines grabbed the historical gold medal.
"I believe it's equal for both men and women. I've lost to a lot of women players in my training," said Yape.
"We're just really happy to contribute to the Philippines. It's our first ever taekwondo gold medal in the Asian Games. We're making history. He's making history, because this is also the first ever virtual taekwondo at the Asian Games," said Rani Ann Ortega, the winner's coach.
China's Ma Jingyue won the gold medal in the women's 49kg taekwondo event. In the same event, Talah Alhassan Alhindh competed as the first athlete from the Asian Refugee Team (ART). She lost to Ma in the round of 16.
"I was very excited. It was amazing to participate. It's the first time I've traveled from the refugee camp to another country. I've been trying to do my best these past few days," said Alhindh.
On the tennis court, Wang Xiyu claimed China's sixth straight women's singles Games gold, defeating teammate Zhang Shuai 6-2, 6-1 in a one-sided affair at Higashiyama Park Tennis Center.
Over 66 minutes, Zhang and Wang put their friendship aside as they dueled for gold in what was also the third consecutive all-Chinese final in this event.
For Wang, the result marked a return to form after struggling with injuries and inconsistency in recent seasons. The victory also gave her an automatic berth at the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles.
"She is someone I really respect," Wang said of Zhang. "Everything that she's been through is also a form of encouragement to me."
"Still, on the court, the biggest form of respect I can show is to give my best to play her," Wang added. "This is what sport, what elite competition is like. Your actions speak for you."
Wang reached the final on Thursday by defeating pre-tournament favorite Alexandra Eala of the Philippines 3-6, 6-3, 6-2. Eala, ranked No. 18 on the WTA Tour, picked up a bronze medal.
China's Wu Yibing, 2018 Asian Games runner-up, advanced to the men's singles final after defeating Japan's Hayato Matsuoka 6-3, 6-2. Wu will meet Coleman Wong from Hong Kong, China in the final.
In the men's doubles final, a pair of amateurs who juggle tennis with their day jobs at a local bank clinched Japan's first gold in this event since Tehran 1974. Yusuke Kusuhara and Shunsuke Nakagawa beat a South Korean pair 2-0 to win the gold.
China failed to defend its women's hockey title after losing 1-0 to India, while China's men's volleyball team was eliminated in the semifinals after a 3-2 defeat to Japan.
China's women's football team ended the tournament empty-handed after a 1-0 defeat to South Korea in the bronze medal match. Noh Jin-young's fourth-minute header proved decisive, earning the Taegeuk Ladies a bronze medal.
South Korea had not defeated China for 11 years before Friday's victory, ending a run of five draws and six losses against China.
On a day of fast and furious action at Yahagigawa Canoe Slalom Course, China grabbed a gold and a bronze in the women's kayak cross, while home favorite Kurumi Ito, winner of the women's kayak single, was knocked out in the quarterfinals. Chen Lin claimed the gold while 16-year-old Xu Linxi settled for bronze. Chang Chu-han of Chinese Taipei took silver.
In the men's kayak cross, Japan's Yuuki Tanaka, who claimed silver in the kayak single, powered past Chinese rival Quan Xin after the first gate to take the gold medal. Quan took the silver while Hu Zhaoshan, who won the gold in the men's kayak single, had to settle for bronze this time.
In archery, India won its first Asian Games gold medal in the recurve women's team event, ending South Korea's run of seven consecutive titles, which had stretched back to Bangkok 1998. China took bronze with a 6-2 win over Indonesia. China claimed the recurve mixed team title, edging India to second place. South Korea also captured a gold, its second straight Asian Games gold medal in the recurve men's team event after defeating India 5-1 on sets.
China also secured gold medals in judo and boxing, with Niu Xinran winning the women's over-78kg title and Paris Olympic champion Wu Yu taking gold in the women's 51kg division.
Moreover, host Japan claimed two gold medals as track cycling concluded, while China and Malaysia took one gold each on the final day.
In water polo, China's men failed to make the final after losing to Kazakhstan 11-10. Kazakhstan will meet Japan in the final.
In golf, four-time PGA Tour winner Kim Joo-hyung of South Korea is taking a one-stroke lead into the final round of the men's golf tournament. South Korea is also leading the men's team standings while China leads the women's team.
Elsewhere, two more athletes failed doping tests at the Games and have been provisionally suspended, according to the International Testing Agency (ITA). The two athletes are Kazakhstan's track and field athlete Aiana Bolatbekkyz and Tajikistan's tennis player Issamjon Sharifov. The number of doping cases at these Asian Games has risen to six. ■