TITLE:
Egypt showcases blend of ancient, modern civilizations

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-01

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260901/b1a1ce06fc2a40c5b4df96bda003a6b4/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Tourists ride camels at the Giza pyramid complex in Egypt, April 9, 2026. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Xin Mengchen)
This photo taken with a mobile phone on Aug. 29, 2026 shows tourists visiting the Saladin Citadel in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Shen Hong)
This photo taken on Aug. 30, 2026 shows a street view in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Xin Mengchen)
This photo taken with a mobile phone on Aug. 29, 2026 shows a city view in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Shen Hong)
This photo taken with a mobile phone on Aug. 30, 2026 shows a city view in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Cai Yang)
This photo taken on Aug. 13, 2026 shows the Central Business District (CBD) in the new administrative capital of Egypt, east of Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Xin Mengchen)
People relax at Tahrir Square in Cairo, Egypt, Aug. 30, 2026. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Zhang Haobo)
This photo taken on Feb. 20, 2026 shows a view in Aswan, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Xin Mengchen)
Tourists stand around the colossus of ancient Egyptian pharaoh Ramses II at the Grand Egyptian Museum in Giza, Egypt, Aug. 27, 2026. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei)
This photo taken on May 17, 2026 shows a view of the Egyptian Museum in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Xin Mengchen)
This photo taken on Aug. 13, 2026 shows the iconic tower in the Central Business District (CBD) in the new administrative capital of Egypt, east of Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Xin Mengchen)
This photo taken on Aug. 29, 2026 shows a city view in Cairo, Egypt. Egypt is home to an ancient civilization that flourished along the Nile River. From the pyramids that have stood for millennia to its bustling modern cities, the ancient and the contemporary intertwine across the country, reflecting a civilization that has endured through the ages. (Xinhua/Yao Dawei)