TITLE:
Exploring new paths for sustainable development in Asia-Pacific

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-08

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260908/05d91aa4e1604be681670aff0d27dd13/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
SHENZHEN, Sept. 8 (Xinhua) -- As the Asia-Pacific embraces a more digital, intelligent and green future, Chinese modernization is creating fresh opportunities for the region and beyond, said participants at the Asia-Pacific Media Forum.
As an important part of the APEC "China Year" events, the forum, held on Saturday in the southern city of Shenzhen, brought together more than 400 representatives from over 40 countries and regions, as well as participants from the United Nations and other international organizations.
They expressed hope that the 33rd APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting, to be held in Shenzhen this November, will give fresh impetus to the building of an Asia-Pacific community, deepen regional cooperation and promote shared prosperity.
ASIA-PACIFIC COMMUNITY
As the host of APEC 2026, China has set "Building an Asia-Pacific Community to Prosper Together" as the theme of this year's event.
"The Asia-Pacific Community is a partnership built on mutual respect, peaceful coexistence, shared prosperity, and cultural diversity. It is not merely a geographical concept but a community connected by common aspirations for stability, economic development, and human progress," said Saeed Ahmad, director-general of Pakistan Broadcasting Corporation.
Home to one-third of the planet's population, the Asia-Pacific accounts for over 60 percent of global economic output and nearly half of global trade, making it a key driver of global economic growth.
Kamphol Mahanukul, president of the Thai-Chinese Journalists Association, said that the Asia-Pacific miracle was not a historical coincidence, but was forged through a collective commitment to openness, practical cooperation and mutual respect.
"The rise of Asia is a beautiful thing. It is helping provide a dynamic motor not just for the Asia-Pacific but for the global economy," said Sourabh Gupta, resident senior fellow at the Institute for China-America Studies.
"The path to shared prosperity in the Asia-Pacific runs through cooperation, not coercion; through open trade, not walls; through dialogue, not division," said Shezra Mansab Ali Khan Kharal, Pakistan's minister of state for climate change and environmental coordination.
OPENNESS, INNOVATION, COOPERATION
Openness, innovation and cooperation are the three pillars of the APEC "China Year". Participants said they reflect the priorities of APEC economies and could, with greater emphasis, give a further boost to regional innovation and economic integration.
"A prosperous and stable Asia-Pacific requires economies to preserve channels for trade, investment and dialogue even when external conditions become more difficult. An open and interconnected region also gives businesses more options to diversify markets, suppliers and logistics networks," said Nguyen Ha Phuong, principal researcher at the Institute for Asia-Pacific Studies under the Vietnam Academy of Social Sciences.
You Sang Chul, head of the China Institute of the Korea JoongAng Daily, said Shenzhen had demonstrated how emerging technologies had become part of everyday life, citing autonomous vehicles and drone delivery services as examples.
He noted that China was leading global innovation in areas such as AI while integrating digital and green technologies into its modernization drive, providing valuable experience and new opportunities for other Asia-Pacific economies.
As the APEC "China year" has gathered momentum, member economies have stepped up practical cooperation in areas such as food security, fisheries and marine affairs, and energy.
Felipe Cuadra, general counsel of Chile's daily La Tercera, said that Asia-Pacific cooperation had opened up broad new opportunities for Chile and that Latin America needs diverse and reliable partners to better withstand external shocks.
CHINESE MODERNIZATION, NEW OPPORTUNITIES
The APEC "China Year" coincides with the first year of China's 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030). At this new historical juncture, China is deepening reforms and pursuing higher-standard opening-up, creating new opportunities for the Asia-Pacific and beyond through its modernization.
After touring the Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macao Bridge, Felix Paz Quiroz, general director of the Peruvian news agency Andina, described the cross-sea link as an engineering marvel.
He said the visit reminded him of Peru's Chancay Port, another major transportation hub, voicing the hope of drawing on China's experience to develop the port into an important gateway connecting Latin America and Asia.
In recent years, China has shared the benefits of its institutional reforms with the rest of the world.
From expanding its pilot free trade zones and advancing the Hainan Free Trade Port in the south to further opening its education, finance, and healthcare sectors, China has steadily advanced institutional opening-up by aligning its rules, regulations, management and standards with international practices.
Diego Ruzzarin, director of Mexico's MPV Media, depicted China as an important source of inspiration for Global South countries over the past four decades, offering valuable experience for their development.
As China continues to open up, its unilateral visa-free policies have been extended to more countries, while "China Travel" and "China Shopping" have continued to gain traction as themes online.
Ivan Sinichkin, deputy editor-in-chief of Russian newspaper Rossiyskaya Gazeta, said the growing flows of people and goods reflect shared commitment among APEC economies to pursue common development through the opportunities created by Chinese modernization.■