TITLE:
Grassroots official leads village on path to rural revitalization

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-23

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260823/7836ca8b4e134a82a3648994d4cdf8eb/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Zhong Baijun (R) learns about production at a village collective company in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. Zhong Baijun, Party secretary of Xijidang Village and head of the village committee, has spent 28 years serving his hometown in Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province.
When he returned to the village to take up his post in 1998, the village collective had no industries and was in debt. Most residents made a living from farming, and many younger villagers left home to seek work elsewhere.
Looking for new ways to develop the local economy, Zhong and other village officials traveled to other areas to explore potential industries. Leveraging the village's coastal location and the relatively abundant stock of discarded fishing nets, they gradually developed a nylon pellet processing industry.
The industry initially grew through small workshops. To restructure the sector, the village invested 120 million yuan (about 17.9 million U.S. dollars) in building a standardized industrial park and later developed a model that allowed residents to benefit from the industry's growth through shareholding, local employment and dividends. By 2025, Xijidang's total industrial output reached 2.5 billion yuan (about 372 million U.S. dollars). The industry also created jobs for more than 1,600 local residents.
As the collective economy grew, the village put more resources into improving community well-being. It organized cultural and sports activities, as well as model-family award campaigns, giving residents more opportunities to take part in community events.
Over the past 28 years, Zhong has witnessed the village's industries expand, employment opportunities increase and collective income rise. "We should put the people's concerns first," Zhong said. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
Zhong Baijun (L) learns about the research and development of products at a laboratory in a circular economy industrial park in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
Zhong Baijun (C) visits a senior villager in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, June 25, 2026. (Photo by Si Wei/Xinhua)
Zhong Baijun (C) discusses the company's development with village officials and employees at a village collective company in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Photo by Si Wei/Xinhua)
Villagers play Chinese chess at a cultural center in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 21, 2026. (Photo by Si Wei/Xinhua)
Zhong Baijun discusses development plans with representatives of neighboring villages at a circular economy industrial park in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
Zhong Baijun (C) learns about the recycling of discarded fishing nets at a circular economy industrial park in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
Zhong Baijun discusses development plans with representatives of neighboring villages at a circular economy industrial park in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Photo by Si Wei/Xinhua)
Zhong Baijun (C) learns about production at a village collective company in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Photo by Si Wei/Xinhua)
Zhong Baijun talks about the company's development at a village collective company in Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 19, 2026. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a view of the Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province. (Photo by Si Wei/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a view of the Xijidang Village, Zhewang Town of Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)