TITLE:
Job fairs, vocational training courses boost employment across China

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-25

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260825/800886cebc1e47dfbcbb72d8044a6743/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Job seekers inquire about recruitment information at a job fair in Rugao City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 14, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Wu Shujian/Xinhua)
A job seeker fills out the resume in front of a company's booth at a job fair in Jiangyin City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Aug. 25, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Huan Yueliang/Xinhua)
A job seeker views recruitment information at a job fair in Mengcheng County of Bozhou City, east China's Anhui Province, Aug. 21, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Hu Weiguo/Xinhua)
A job seeker views recruitment information at a job fair in Zhoushan City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 21, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Xing Shoumiao/Xinhua)
A job seeker views recruitment information at a job fair in Jiaozuo City of central China's Henan Province, Aug. 8, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Xu Hongxing/Xinhua)
A professional caregiver provides a public welfare training on infant care in Heshan City, south China's Guangdong Province, Aug. 23, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Huang Jiming/Xinhua)
Trainees practice driving forklift at a free forklift training class in Qinyang City of central China's Henan Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Zhang Xinyu/Xinhua)
A trainee (R) practices welding operations under the guidance of a teacher at a vocational skills training school in Xiangyang City, central China's Hubei Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Yang Dong/Xinhua)
A live-streaming trainer (2nd R) guides the trainees to conduct live-streaming sales of phalaenopsis orchids at a flower growing base in Gaoyi County of Shijiazhuang City, north China's Hebei Province, Aug. 24, 2026. A series of job fairs have been held across the country during the summer vacation and vocational training courses are also being offered in many places to advance employment. (Photo by Liang Zidong/Xinhua)