TITLE:
Jointly advancing high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260911/561e5ce79f3146cda5dcbb6c310fec87/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A drone photo taken on June 17, 2022 shows the headquarters building of the New Development Bank in east China's Shanghai. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Fang Zhe)
This photo taken on June 7, 2026 shows a China-made self-driving taxi near the Burj Al Arab hotel in Dubai, the United Arab Emirates. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Wen Xinnian)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 20, 2024 shows a view of the Redstone Concentrated Solar Thermal Power Project near Postmasburg in Northern Cape Province of South Africa. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Zhang Yudong)
People participate in the BRICS Dialogue on Civilizations at Rio de Janeiro State University in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, June 27, 2025. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Wang Tiancong)
People visit the exhibition "On Top of the Pyramid: The Civilization of Ancient Egypt" at the Shanghai Museum in east China's Shanghai, Aug. 11, 2025. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)
The China National Center for the Performing Arts (NCPA) Chorus, rehearses with Choralla, a local Saudi choir, for the World Famous Songs Concert at the King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture, in Dhahran, Saudi Arabia, Dec. 11, 2025. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Wang Haizhou)
Media professionals work at the media center of the 16th BRICS Summit in Kazan, Russia, Oct. 22, 2024. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)
A staff member introduces products via livestreaming at the booth of Iran during the 10th Silk Road International Exposition in Xi'an, northwest China's Shaanxi Province, May 21, 2026. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Zhang Sijie)
Workers sort coffee beans to be exported to China at a coffee processing plant in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia, Feb. 13, 2026. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Geng Xinning)
A businessman (R) from India selects toys at the Yiwu International Trade Market in Yiwu City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Feb. 2, 2023. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi)
Passengers pose for photos with a model of a high-speed electrical multiple unit (EMU) train of the Jakarta-Bandung high-speed railway at the waiting hall of Halim Station in Jakarta, Indonesia, April 28, 2025. The expansion of BRICS marks a qualitative leap in its representativeness and influence. Today, BRICS countries account for nearly half of the world's population, around 30 percent of global economic output, and one-fifth of global trade.
The greater BRICS cooperation has entered a stage of high-quality development. (Xinhua/Xu Qin)