TITLE:
Mid-Autumn Festival celebrated across China

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-25

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260925/5014bb5b28f04d948c751606b469efa2/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A staff member distributes moon cakes to tourists at a scenic area in Yangzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Meng Delong/Xinhua)
An artist performs a puppet show during a theater festival in Taiyuan, north China's Shanxi Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Hu Qiusi)
A child poses for a photo with an actress during a theater festival in Taiyuan, north China's Shanxi Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Hu Qiusi)
A drone photo taken on Sept. 25, 2026 shows tourists visiting the Slender West Lake scenic spot in Yangzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Meng Delong/Xinhua)
Relatives of overseas Chinese celebrate the Mid-Autumn Festival at Baoxiang Village of Haian, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Zhou Qiang/Xinhua)
Tourists enjoy a folk performance at a scenic area in Suzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Hang Xingwei/Xinhua)
People make a fish-shaped lantern at a museum in Haian, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Gu Binbin/Xinhua)
People participate in a riddle game in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, central China's Hubei Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Tan Hua/Xinhua)
People make "ciba", a round-shaped glutinous rice cake, during a Mid-Autumn Festival-themed fair in Wuyi County of Jinhua, east China's Zhejiang Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Zhang Jiancheng/Xinhua)
A visitor enjoys fish-shaped lanterns during a Mid-Autumn Festival fair in Changzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Photo by Wang Qiming/Xinhua)
Children paint at a Mid-Autumn Festival-themed fair in Tianjin, north China, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Zhao Zishuo)
Children make mooncake-shaped crafts at a Mid-Autumn Festival-themed fair in Tianjin, north China, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Zhao Zishuo)
Hippos enjoy a special feast at Chongqing Zoo in southwest China's Chongqing, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Tang Yi)
A tourist visits an art exhibition during the Mid-Autumn Festival holiday at Times Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Ren Chao)
Red pandas enjoy a special feast at Chongqing Zoo in southwest China's Chongqing, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Tang Yi)
A tourist visits an art exhibition during the Mid-Autumn Festival holiday at Times Art Museum in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Ren Chao)
People make lanterns at a Mid-Autumn Festival-themed fair in Haikou, south China's Hainan Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng)
A child participates in a game at a Mid-Autumn Festival-themed fair in Haikou, south China's Hainan Province, Sept. 25, 2026. Friday marks this year's Mid-Autumn Festival. It is celebrated annually on the 15th day of the eighth month in the Chinese traditional calendar. Diverse events were held on Friday across China to celebrate the festival. (Xinhua/Guo Cheng)