TITLE:
Mudslides, landslides leave 4 dead in east China's Jiangxi

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-06

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260906/c08f77d70cae4553bdcebe315ff95cf1/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Rescuers search for survivors at the affected area of a mudslide and landslide in Mingkeng Village, Suichuan County of east China's Jiangxi Province, Sept. 6, 2026. Four people have been confirmed dead after a mudslide and landslide struck Suichuan County in east China's Jiangxi Province on Saturday morning. The disaster happened after days of torrential rain caused by Typhoon Saudel. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)
NANCHANG, Sept. 6 (Xinhua) -- Four people have been confirmed dead on Sunday after a series of mudslides and landslides struck Suichuan County in east China's Jiangxi Province on Saturday.
In Mingkeng Village in Gaoping Town, a mudslide and landslide on Saturday left three dead and nine others missing as of Sunday noon, according to reporters at the site.
In the same county, two people were reported missing after a landslide struck Yangfen Village in Zuo'an Town on Saturday, and one of them was later found dead on Sunday afternoon according to the local government. Search and rescue operations are underway.
As of Saturday night, more than 640 rescuers have arrived for search and rescue. The mudslide has completely destroyed the road, hampering the rescue, said Wan Qiang, an on-site rescuer with China Anneng, a state-owned engineering and rescue enterprise.
Liang Kuan, deputy head of Gaoping Town, said nearly 200 residents from Mingkeng Village have been relocated to a safe site, where they receive catering and medical services.
In neighboring areas, more than 5,300 people have been relocated to guard against potential disasters.
After days of torrential rain caused by Typhoon Saudel, 161,500 residents have been affected in the province.
China's Ministry of Natural Resources raised its geological disaster response for Jiangxi from Level IV to III at 11 a.m. Saturday and has dispatched a work team to the site to guide rescue efforts.
The National Development and Reform Commission on Saturday allocated 20 million yuan (2.95 million U.S. dollars) from the central natural disaster relief funds to support emergency rescue and disaster relief work in Jiangxi.
China has a four-tier emergency response system, with Level I being the most severe. ■
Rescuers search for survivors at the affected area of a mudslide and landslide at Mingkeng Village, Suichuan County of east China's Jiangxi Province, Sept. 6, 2026. Four people have been confirmed dead after a mudslide and landslide struck Suichuan County in east China's Jiangxi Province on Saturday morning.
The disaster happened after days of torrential rain caused by Typhoon Saudel. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)
Excavators work to clear the road at Mingkeng Village, Suichuan County of east China's Jiangxi Province, Sept. 6, 2026. Four people have been confirmed dead after a mudslide and landslide struck Suichuan County in east China's Jiangxi Province on Saturday morning.
The disaster happened after days of torrential rain caused by Typhoon Saudel. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)
Rescuers work at the affected area of a mudslide and landslide at Mingkeng Village, Suichuan County of east China's Jiangxi Province, Sept. 6, 2026. Four people have been confirmed dead after a mudslide and landslide struck Suichuan County in east China's Jiangxi Province on Saturday morning.
The disaster happened after days of torrential rain caused by Typhoon Saudel. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)
Rescuers carrying rescue equipment walk to the affected area of a mudslide and landslide at Mingkeng Village, Suichuan County of east China's Jiangxi Province, Sept. 6, 2026. Four people have been confirmed dead after a mudslide and landslide struck Suichuan County in east China's Jiangxi Province on Saturday morning.
The disaster happened after days of torrential rain caused by Typhoon Saudel. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)