TITLE:
National Day holiday sees cultural, tourism boom across China

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-07

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261007/67dd282214ac4ab986c9003a10713ff4/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Tourists watch a 3D water screen movie at a tourist resort in Jiaozhou City, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 6, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wang Zhaomai/Xinhua)
People visit a flower expo and trade fair in Qingzhou City, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wang Jilin/Xinhua)
People enjoy their leisure time in Longyang Town of Tengzhou City, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Sun Yang/Xinhua)
A drone photo shows tourists enjoying scenery by raft on the Yulong River in Yangshuo County of Guilin City, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Jiang Keqing/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the West Lake scenic area in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Xu Yu)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 7, 2026 shows tourists visiting a cafe at Jiangnan Village in Tengchong City, southwest China's Yunnan Province. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Gong Zujin/Xinhua)
Tourists visit Baka village of Jinuo Ethnic Township in Jinghong City, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Li Yunsheng/Xinhua)
A drone photo shows tourists viewing flowers at a scenic area in Xinghua City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhou Shegen/Xinhua)
Tourists walk on a pedestrian suspension bridge in the Yimeng mountains in Linyi City, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wu Jiquan/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 6, 2026 shows tourists watching a performance at Yunfeng Tunpu scenic area in Anshun City, southwest China's Guizhou Province. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
People enjoy their leisure time at the Yiwu Botanic Garden in Yiwu City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Shi Kuanbing/Xinhua)
Tourists ride camels at the Mingsha Mountain and Crescent Spring Scenic Area in Dunhuang, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhang Xiaoliang/Xinhua)
Tourists view flowers at a scenic area in Kunming, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Liang Zhiqiang/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the Jingangbei historical and cultural block in Beibei District of southwest China's Chongqing Municipality, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Qin Tingfu/Xinhua)
People enjoy their leisure time at Rongxing Village in Tongxiang City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Jin Peng/Xinhua)
Children have fun by making food at a kitchen in Xingshan Village of Yuyao City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhang Hui/Xinhua)
Tourists pose for photos at the scenic area of Mount Tai in Tai'an, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua)
Tourists are pictured at the south gate of Xihu Park in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan)
Tourists pose for photos at the scenic area of Mount Tai in Tai'an, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 7, 2026. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 7, 2026 shows tourists taking boat tours at Nanhu park in Nanning City, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. People across the country enjoy themselves through various cultural and tourism activities and events during the National Day holiday. (Xinhua/Zhou Hua)