TITLE:
Pair of Chinese giant pandas arrives in U.S. city Atlanta

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-27

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260927/e70947a9a9214a8ab97241083fc5f9e3/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A chartered FedEx cargo plane carrying a pair of Chinese giant pandas, Ping Ping and Fu Shuang, lands in Atlanta, the United States, Sept. 27, 2026. The two giant pandas are expected to stay at Zoo Atlanta for 10 years, according to an agreement between Zoo Atlanta and the China Wildlife Conservation Association. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)
ATLANTA, Sept. 27 (Xinhua) -- A chartered FedEx cargo plane carrying a pair of Chinese giant pandas, Ping Ping and Fu Shuang, landed in Atlanta in the southeastern United States on Sunday morning.
The two giant pandas are expected to stay at Zoo Atlanta for 10 years, according to an agreement between Zoo Atlanta and the China Wildlife Conservation Association.
Chinese veterinarians and caretakers have arrived in Atlanta in advance to prepare for the pandas' arrival and support their life in quarantine, training and adjustment to the new environment, Xinhua learnt.
Gina Ferrie, vice president of collections and conservation, Zoo Atlanta, said on Thursday that they were "very excited" to be able to have giant pandas return to Zoo Atlanta "after a long two years."
"We've been preparing for Ping Ping and Fu Shuang's arrival. We have added many enhancements to their habitat, including new day rooms that have much more room and very top-of-the-line zoological lighting and floors and other conditions to give them the best welfare," Ferrie told Xinhua.
Ping Ping, the male one born on March 17, 2020, and Fu Shuang, the female one born on Oct. 18, 2020, departed for Zoo Atlanta from Chengdu Shuangliu International Airport in southwest China's Sichuan Province. ■
This photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows trucks waiting to receive Chinese giant pandas, Ping Ping and Fu Shuang, at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport in Atlanta, the United States. A chartered FedEx cargo plane carrying a pair of Chinese giant pandas, Ping Ping and Fu Shuang, landed in Atlanta in the southeastern United States on Sunday morning.
The two giant pandas are expected to stay at Zoo Atlanta for 10 years, according to an agreement between Zoo Atlanta and the China Wildlife Conservation Association. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)
This photo taken on Sept. 27, 2026 shows giant pandas Ping Ping and Fu Shuang being loaded onto FedEx trucks at Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport, in Atlanta, the United States. A chartered FedEx cargo plane carrying a pair of Chinese giant pandas, Ping Ping and Fu Shuang, landed in Atlanta in the southeastern United States on Sunday morning.
The two giant pandas are expected to stay at Zoo Atlanta for 10 years, according to an agreement between Zoo Atlanta and the China Wildlife Conservation Association. (Xinhua/Liu Yanan)