TITLE:
Peng Liyuan calls for int'l community to advance women's education for access to digital, intelligent technologies

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-10

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261010/a8be2105dc63498c89058e8bfba66347/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Oct. 10 (Xinhua) -- Peng Liyuan, wife of Chinese President Xi Jinping and special envoy of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) for the advancement of girls' and women's education, called for the international community to vigorously develop digital and intelligent education for women, to ensure that they can use and benefit from digital and intelligent technologies.
Peng made the remarks via video link at the award ceremony of the 2026 UNESCO Prize for Girls' and Women's Education, held on Friday local time in Paris.
Noting that girls' and women's education remains an arduous task, she also urged the international community to work together to enhance women's vocational education and training and build them a ladder to a life of brilliance.
Peng extended warm congratulations to this year's laureates who are from Morocco and Peru. Noting that girls' and women's education is a key measure of the progress of human civilization, she said in recent years, thanks to UNESCO's strong advocacy and the international community's concerted efforts, encouraging progress in this worthy cause has been achieved.
Stressing that China has always set great store by girls' and women's education, Peng said China is committed to helping women in China to receive better education and live a life of purpose.
"At the same time, we are also actively and extensively carrying out practical cooperation with UNESCO and relevant parties, and have implemented a number of programs, benefiting women across the globe," Peng added.
She said that China's efforts over recent years in using AI to empower quality education have not only boosted gender equality in education and women's all-round development, but also provided useful experience for fellow Global South countries.
In advancing girls' and women's education, hope is sown, dreams are nurtured, and happiness will be reaped in abundance, she said.
"As the UNESCO Prize for Girls' and Women's Education enters a new decade, I stand ready to work with all of you to promote greater progress in girls' and women's education, and contribute to a brighter future in which more women can thrive and shine," Peng added.
Since China established the prize in cooperation with UNESCO in 2015, the award has continued to exert a positive impact and received extensive attention and high recognition from the international community. ■