TITLE:
People celebrate 77th founding anniversary of PRC

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-01

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261001/ca67a0c297624af592ec90189d27ecfc/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
People attend a flag-raising ceremony marking the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China at Wuyi Square in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan)
People watch the sunrise in Fuyuan City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Li Yongjun/Xinhua)
People attend a flag-raising ceremony marking the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China at Wuyi Square in Fuzhou, southeast China's Fujian Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Lin Shanchuan)
Children attend a flag-raising ceremony at the Yuhuatai memorial park of martyrs in Nanjing, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Hu Xiao/Xinhua)
A choir from a middle school sings a song at a flag-raising ceremony held at Century Square in Pudong New Area, east China's Shanghai, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Liu Ying)
People watch a performance after attending a flag-raising ceremony at Dongfeng Square in Kunming, southwest China's Yunnan Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Zheng Yi/Xinhua)
A Chinese national flag flies at the Potala Palace square in Lhasa, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)
Visitors take a selfie at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
Passengers pose for a photo in front of a train at Harbin Railway Station in Harbin, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Xu Shuai/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Oct. 1, 2026 shows tourists taking photos on a skywalk at Wuxiakou scenic area in Badong County, central China's Hubei Province. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Jiao Guobin/Xinhua)
A flag-raising ceremony marking the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China is held at the Potala Palace square in Lhasa, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)
Tourists visit the Nanhu Lake scenic area in Jiaxing, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xu Yu)
Tourists pose for a photo at the Nanhu Lake scenic area in Jiaxing, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xu Yu)
A tourist poses for a photo with an installation themed on National Day celebrations at the Nanhu Lake scenic area in Jiaxing, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xu Yu)
This photo taken on Oct. 1, 2026 shows a "flower basket" installation at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Yin Gang)
Students attend a flag-raising ceremony marking the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China at Hongshan Square in Wuhan, central China's Hubei Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xiao Yijiu)
A man rides the bicycle at a hutong in Dongcheng District, Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Chen Yehua)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 1, 2026 shows people visiting a wetland park in Donghai County, Lianyungang City, east China's Jiangsu Province. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Shao Guangming/Xinhua)
People visit an agricultural demonstration zone at a farm under Beidahuang Group in northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Qian Boyu/Xinhua)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 1, 2026 shows people watching an equestrian performance at a tourism resort in Nantong, east China's Jiangsu Province. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Xu Congjun/Xinhua)
People visit a tourism area in Huangshi City, central China's Hubei Province, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Photo by Zhou Wei/Xinhua)
People visit the Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 1, 2026. People celebrated the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in various ways on Thursday. (Xinhua/Ju Huanzong)