TITLE:
Portraits | Faces of China's educators

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-10

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260910/614860d1ee614f2dba3594e1a7f685ae/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 10 (Xinhua) -- China has an 18.7 million-strong teaching force, the backbone of the world's largest education system. Among them are those who have long served in rural areas, teachers who have made enduring contributions to scientific research, and educators who have crossed mountains and seas to bring knowledge overseas. On the occasion of the 42nd Teachers' Day, we present these faces of dedication, paying tribute to every Chinese educator whose dedication lights up budding dreams. 
Across China's vast rural landscape, rural teachers illuminate classrooms and light up the path of knowledge for children in the most remote communities. They take root at the podium, toil in obscurity, and achieve extraordinary feats at ordinary posts.
On university podiums and at the frontiers of research, educators who do more than pass on knowledge pioneer innovation in the pursuit of the unknown. They stress the significance of talent cultivation and encourage young people to tackle cutting-edge challenges, guiding the nation's march toward scientific and technological strength. 
From across the country, wave after wave of educators have answered the call to teach in the far western reaches of Xinjiang and on the snowy plateau of Xizang. Some have stayed for decades, some have moved their entire families westward, tapping into their wealth of experience to boost educational quality in the western regions. “Go where your country needs you the most.”
Around the world, Chinese educators are building bridges of mutual understanding, respect and appreciation. Whether in mountain classrooms in Sri Lanka, or in agricultural laboratories in Ethiopia, they share knowledge across borders, ranging from language and medicine to technology and beyond. 
From cities to rural areas, from preschool to lifelong learning, the faces of educators extend far beyond these pages. The warm embrace of a special education teacher, the skilled hands of a vocational instructor, the patient companionship of a kindergarten teacher... Their daily perseverance upholds the future of every child. We cannot capture every face, but every act of dedication deserves to be remembered.