TITLE:
Power restoration continues in mudslide-hit Gyirong Port

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-30

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260830/170aa69866d84ec6871adb4b7bbcd8bf/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Staff members install a power transformer about 3 kilometers from mudslide-hit Gyirong Port in Gyirong County, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Aug. 29, 2026. Staff members of the local power company has set up an emergency power transformer not far from the mudslide-hit Gyirong Port, as part of their efforts to ensure power supply for all rescue operations. Power supply is gradually restored in the mudslide-hit areas. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)
A staff member transfers components of a transformer about 3 kilometers from mudslide-hit Gyirong Port in Gyirong County, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Aug. 29, 2026. Staff members of the local power company has set up an emergency power transformer not far from the mudslide-hit Gyirong Port, as part of their efforts to ensure power supply for all rescue operations. Power supply is gradually restored in the mudslide-hit areas. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)
A staff member check power cables near mudslide-hit Gyirong Port in Gyirong County, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Aug. 29, 2026. Staff members of the local power company has set up an emergency power transformer not far from the mudslide-hit Gyirong Port, as part of their efforts to ensure power supply for all rescue operations. Power supply is gradually restored in the mudslide-hit areas. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)
A staff member connect low-voltage output cables near the mudslide-hit Gyirong Port, in Gyirong County, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Aug. 29, 2026. Staff members of the local power company has set up an emergency power transformer not far from the mudslide-hit Gyirong Port, as part of their efforts to ensure power supply for all rescue operations. Power supply is gradually restored in the mudslide-hit areas. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)
Staff members install a power transformer about 3 kilometers from mudslide-hit Gyirong Port in Gyirong County, southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, Aug. 29, 2026. Staff members of the local power company has set up an emergency power transformer not far from the mudslide-hit Gyirong Port, as part of their efforts to ensure power supply for all rescue operations. Power supply is gradually restored in the mudslide-hit areas. (Xinhua/Jigme Dorje)