TITLE:
Roundup: China mulls road safety law revisions, law against cross-border corruption

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-25

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260825/f10f943a0a1c422aa644e687cb943bcd/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Zhao Leji, chairman of the National People's Congress (NPC) Standing Committee, presides over the first plenary meeting of the 24th session of the 14th NPC Standing Committee at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 25, 2026. (Xinhua/Pang Xinglei)
BEIJING, Aug. 25 (Xinhua) -- Chinese lawmakers convened on Tuesday to review a raft of bills, including draft revisions to the Road Traffic Safety Law, a draft law on combating cross-border corruption and a draft healthcare security law.
The bills were submitted for deliberation at the 24th session of the Standing Committee of the 14th National People's Congress (NPC), the country's top legislature.
Zhao Leji, chairman of the NPC Standing Committee, presided over the first plenary meeting of the session.
In the meeting, lawmakers deliberated a draft healthcare security law. Submitted for a third reading, the draft includes provisions on long-term care insurance, aiming to further protect the rights and interests of insured people.
A draft law on farmland protection and quality improvement was submitted for its third reading, adding provisions on talent cultivation and strengthening oversight of funds for high-standard farmland development.
Lawmakers also reviewed a revised draft of the Agriculture Law, which improves support for agricultural and rural economic development, enhances protection for farmers' rights and interests, and strengthens rural development and governance.
A draft revision to the National Defense Mobilization Law was submitted for its second reading. The revisions clarify the concept of national defense mobilization and rules on the collection, use and security management of relevant data.
Lawmakers reviewed a draft amendment to the lawyers law that improves the provisions to boost foreign-related legal services.
A revised draft of the Enterprise Bankruptcy Law, submitted for its second reading, refines rules on the bankruptcy of individual debtors bearing joint and several liability, improves the reorganization system, and adjusts the priority order for distributions from the bankruptcy estate.
Also under review was a revised draft of the banking supervision and regulation law, which introduces classified and tiered supervision of banking institutions, improves the system for protecting banking consumers' rights and interests, and adds a separate chapter on risk resolution.
Lawmakers also reviewed a revised draft of the Water Law. The second-reading draft strengthens provisions on the protection of water resources and water ecology, national water network development, and water conservation and recycling.
Draft revisions to the Road Traffic Safety Law were submitted for review, seeking to improve the road traffic safety management system and strengthen the legal framework for maintaining traffic order. The draft includes a dedicated chapter on autonomous vehicles.
A draft law on combating cross-border corruption was submitted for the first reading, aiming to prevent and punish transnational corruption, deepen international cooperation and safeguard national sovereignty, security, and development interests.
Lawmakers also heard a series of reports, including a report on the implementation of the 2026 plan for national economic and social development, a report on budget execution, a report on government debt management in 2025, and a supervisory research report on government debt management in 2025.
A report on improving the quality of cultural products and services and a report on efforts to consolidate and expand achievements in poverty alleviation and advance all-around rural revitalization were also on the agenda of the lawmakers.
Lawmakers also deliberated an extradition treaty between China and Hungary, a deputy qualification report and personnel-related bills. ■