TITLE:
Ruijin and Yudu: landmarks of the Long March in E China's Jiangxi

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260909/54cafee03a994fe9b9e590066e6c1527/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
This photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a scene of Tantou Village in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
A drone photo taken on May 30, 2024 shows people taking part in an activity at the Yeping revolutionary site in Yeping Village of Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 18, 2026 shows a monument commemorating the departure of the Central Red Army's Long March in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
An aerial drone photo taken on June 4, 2026 shows a city view of Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Photo by Liu Liming/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 18, 2026 shows a view of Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 18, 2025 shows the Ruijin Airport in Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Photo by Liu Liming/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on March 20, 2026 shows a view of the Yeping revolutionary site in Yeping Village of Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
This photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a ferry in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a scene of Tantou Village in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
A file drone photo shows a view of Ruijin Central Revolutionary Base Memorial in Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua)
This photo taken on March 19, 2026 shows a memorial pavilion for Red Army martyrs in Huawu Village of Ruijin, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Wan Xiang)
This photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a monument commemorating the departure of the Central Red Army's Long March in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
Actors perform at a ferry in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province, July 22, 2026. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)
This photo taken on Aug. 19, 2026 shows a sculpture at the Memorial Garden for the Long March Starting Point of the Central Red Army in Yudu County, east China's Jiangxi Province. This year marks the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March by the Red Army under the leadership of the Communist Party of China (CPC). Ruijin and Yudu, Jiangxi Province, are both landmarks in the Long March, the historic military maneuver in modern Chinese history. (Xinhua/Zhou Mi)