TITLE:
Rural tourism booms during China's National Day holiday

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-06

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261006/532034d10125453da5fc8ab6f1ef8cf4/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Tourists visit an iron-chain bridge in Maotai Township of Renhuai City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Chen Yong/Xinhua)
Tourists watch local folk performance in Yinan County, Linyi City, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wang Yanbing/Xinhua)
Tourists visit Zhagana scenic area in Tewo County of Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, northwest China's Gansu Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wang Kexian/Xinhua)
Children experience embroidery in Anji County of Huzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Pan Xuekang/Xinhua)
Children run amid flowers in Longshanhu Village, Baitu Town of Jurong City, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhong Xueman/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Oct. 5, 2026 shows tourists visiting an ancient town in Zhenyuan County of Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture, southwest China's Guizhou Province. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Tai Shengzhi/Xinhua)
Tourists drive ATVs in Yueqing of east China's Zhejiang Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Cai Kuanyuan/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Oct. 5, 2026 shows tourists viewing chrysanthemum at a scenic spot in Xinghua City, east China's Jiangsu Province. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Zhou Shegen/Xinhua)
Tourists take photos among flowers in Kaili City of Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Wu Xianyan/Xinhua)
Tourists dance with local women of the Yao ethnic group in Longsheng County of Guilin City, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Pan Zhixiang/Xinhua)
Tourists view flowers on a train in Niyuan Village of Xuzhou, east China's Jiangsu Province, Oct. 5, 2026. Large numbers of visitors have flocked to rural areas across China during the National Day holiday. (Photo by Kuai Chuang/Xinhua)