TITLE:
Symposium held to study Xi's works on culture

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-09

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261009/711a92c88d1e413a9158984785261738/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Oct. 9 (Xinhua) -- A symposium was held in Beijing on Friday to study the first and second volumes of selected works on culture by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee.
Li Shulei, a member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and head of the Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee, attended the symposium and delivered a speech.
The volumes were published in August by the Central Party Literature Press.
Attendees at the symposium said the selections systematically present the fundamental principles, core content and essential requirements of Xi Jinping Thought on Culture, providing an authoritative textbook for its study and application.
In studying the selections, it is important to consciously study and apply Xi Jinping Thought on Culture and better fulfill the cultural mission of the new era, they said.
The attendees called for efforts to gain a deeper understanding of Xi Jinping Thought on Culture as the fundamental guidelines for public communication and cultural work in the new era, as well as its strategic vision for building China into a leading country in culture. They also urged efforts to translate the gains from studying it into concrete actions.
Organized by the Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee, the symposium was attended by officials from relevant central departments, central publicity and cultural institutions, and publicity departments of provincial-level CPC committees, as well as experts and scholars in social sciences.
The volumes of the selected works contain 78 pieces of the most important and fundamental works by Xi on cultural development from November 2012 to February 2026, featuring reports, speeches, letters and instructions.
Xi Jinping Thought on Culture was formally put forward at a national meeting on the work of public communication and culture in October 2023. ■