TITLE:
Unmanned technologies displayed during World Manufacturing Conference

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260922/40d45aec213e43dbac8ed54a19422a43/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows people watching a humanoid robot during the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition at Luogang Park in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows the opening ceremony of the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition at Luogang Park in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 21, 2026 shows people watching an unmanned smart forklift during the 2026 World Manufacturing Conference in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows people watching a drone during the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition at Luogang Park in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows a man watching a self-driving bus during the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition at Luogang Park in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 21, 2026 shows people watching an electric logistics drone during the 2026 World Manufacturing Conference in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows a robot demonstrating fully autonomous express sorting during the 2026 World Manufacturing Conference in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows robots for daily inspection, hidden danger investigation and rectification work in power scenarios displayed during the 2026 World Manufacturing Conference in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows a multi-arm collaborative robot demonstrating AI quality control during the 2026 World Manufacturing Conference in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows a man viewing a drone during the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition at Luogang Park in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows people watching a drone during the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition at Luogang Park in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. Various unmanned technologies are displayed during the World Manufacturing Conference. As part of the event, the All-Space Unmanned Ecosystem Conference & Equipment Achievement Exhibition is held in Luogang Park, displaying the latest technologies, products and scenarios solutions in the field of all-space unmanned system. (Xinhua/Zhou Mu)