TITLE:
Various cultural, tourism events draw visitors during National Day holiday

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-02

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20261002/2941fa053cd74d69a8c4d6d1056d64c4/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A drone photo taken on Oct. 1, 2026 shows people watching a performance near Qilou, or arcade buildings, in Wuzhou of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by He Huawen/Xinhua)
People watch a live-action drama at a scenic spot in Beihai, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 1, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Li Junguang/Xinhua)
People take part in a sky lantern release event in Xuan'en County in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture in central China's Hubei Province, Oct. 1, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Song Wen/Xinhua)
Women of Hezhe ethnic group display paper-cutting artworks at a digital experiencing center for intangible cultural heritages in Tongjiang City, northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Liu Wanping/Xinhua)
Acrobatic performers stage a palace lantern show in Tengzhou City, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 1, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Li Zhijun/Xinhua)
Tourists pose for photos with Sichuan Opera performers at a theater in Yibin City, southwest China's Sichuan Province, Oct. 1, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Peng Minxiang/Xinhua)
Children experience shadow puppet performing at an intangible cultural heritage exhibition hall in Badong County, central China's Hubei Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Jiao Guobin/Xinhua)
Children make a pattern of Huashan Mountain rock paintings with an intelligent device at the Museum of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region in Nanning, south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Xinhua/Zhang Ailin)
Tourists visit a special exhibition on Shanxi's cloth and embroidery at a cultural and creative industrial park in Taiyuan City, north China's Shanxi Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Xinhua/Cao Yang)
Actors in costumes interact with tourists during a performance at a scenic spot in Qingdao, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 1, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Xinhua/Li Ziheng)
A drone photo taken on Oct. 2, 2026 shows tourists watching a performance at the National Archaeological Site Park of Sui-Tang Luoyang City in Luoyang City, central China's Henan Province. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Zhang Yixi/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the Qingzhou Museum in Qingzhou, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Wang Jilin/Xinhua)
Tourists visit the Tengzhou Museum in Tengzhou, east China's Shandong Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Sun Yang/Xinhua)
Tourists visit a film museum built on the former site of Changchun Film Studio in Changchun, northeast China's Jilin Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Xinhua/Zhang Nan)
Tourists visit the Handan Museum in Handan, north China's Hebei Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Hao Qunying/Xinhua)
Tourists visit a film museum built on the former site of Changchun Film Studio in Changchun, northeast China's Jilin Province, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Xinhua/Zhang Nan)
Tourists visit the Zhengyang Gate in Beijing, capital of China, Oct. 2, 2026. During the National Day holiday, various cultural and tourism events are held across the country to attract visitors. (Photo by Bi Shanghong/Xinhua)