TITLE:
Whispers of Chinese characters on ceramic glaze: A ceramic micro-calligraphy inheritor's story

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260911/ea4d1e3fe03e4d8d9abeeb47d573f79c/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
MasterOfCrafts | Whispers of Chinese characters on ceramic glaze: A ceramic micro-calligraphy inheritor's story -Xinhua
MasterOfCrafts | Whispers of Chinese characters on ceramic glaze: A ceramic micro-calligraphy inheritor's story
Source: Xinhua
Editor: huaxia
2026-09-11 21:32:16
JINGDEZHEN, Sept. 11 (Xinhua) -- There goes an old Chinese saying that "the scenery changes with each step." This saying can be true when you look at a ceramic micro-calligraphy artwork, on which Chinese characters are written in tiny little sizes so that you can not even notice them from a distance.
Micro-calligraphy, or weishu, is an age-old Chinese art that wields the traditional Chinese writing brush to produce Chinese characters of astonishing minuteness with naked vision. This art form has deep roots in antiquity, with its earliest traces found in the oracle bone inscriptions from the Western Zhou Dynasty (1046 BC-771 BC).
Ceramic micro-calligraphy, which combines the delicate art with polychrome ceramic, demands high in its making as the ceramic needs to go through high-temperature firing in kiln after the writing. To create a piece, the craftsman, relying solely on his naked eyes, uses a custom fashioned brush, with ultra-fine hairs and high-temperature-resistant pigments, to paint delicate motifs directly onto the ceramic's surface, no errors or corrections allowed. When the ceramic goes through repeated firings in the kiln, even the slightest deviation in temperature control can make all previous labors in vain. Upon completion, the artwork is seen with tiny little Chinese characters interlaced with paintings, complementing each other beautifully.
The art has become a treasure of traditional Chinese crafts with irreplaceable artistic values, and was inscribed as one of China's national-level intangible cultural heritages in 2014.
Liu Dachuan, a 47-year-old senior craftsman from south China's Guangdong Province, has dedicated himself to the art of ceramic micro-calligraphy for decades. He can inscribe up to 163 Chinese characters on a single square centimeter of porcelain, all perfectly distinguishable under a magnifying glass. Liu has formed a modern artistic style while carrying on the traditions, and his works have won multiple widely recognized awards.
"Writing micro-calligraphy with the naked eye tests not only your eyesight, but also your very soul," Liu said, adding that a machine might replicate the shapes of characters, but it could never depict the flowing spirit unique to the tip of a brush.
To bring ceramic micro-calligraphy to a wider audience, Liu held solo thematic exhibitions, and further established a studio in Jingdezhen, where he formally accepts apprentices and guides them step by step in the art. He also hosts public welfare open classes and intangible cultural heritage experiencing salons, where he offers lectures on the history of micro-calligraphy to local ceramics artisans and tourists on study tours.
Regarded as premium collectible art pieces, ceramic micro-calligraphy artworks have won great favor from cultural institutions and museums, collectors and art lovers across the country. Meanwhile, as craftworks embodying the charm of oriental beauty, they have also appeared in exhibitions of many foreign countries, often being selected as gifts for culture exchanges, and being collected by overseas museums. In a way, they have become artistic carriers to promote the traditional Chinese culture and the exchanges between China and the world.