TITLE:
Xi calls on BRICS to unite Global South, deepen cooperation

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-13

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260913/f9d474ec2edd4bcfa1fe848da9a2b41d/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
* The international landscape is volatile and fraught with risks and challenges, Xi said, adding that to bring stability to the world and make it a better place, BRICS countries must seize the historical initiative, rally the Global South, and advance the well-being of all humanity.
* Xi proposed five initiatives on "greater BRICS" cooperation in areas of AI, trade and investment facilitation, digital industry, intelligent manufacturing, and science and technology talent development.
NEW DELHI, Sept. 13 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday called on BRICS countries to strengthen unity among the Global South and play an active, stabilizing and positive role in global affairs.
In a speech when attending the second day of BRICS summit in New Delhi, Xi also outlined concrete proposals to further strengthen greater BRICS cooperation, with a focus on emerging areas including artificial intelligence, trade, digital industries and manufacturing.
KEY DRIVER OF MULTIPOLARITY
Xi pointed out that when changes unseen in a century are accelerating across the world, the Global South, with its collective rise, has become a key driver of world multipolarity.
At the same time, the international landscape is volatile and fraught with risks and challenges, Xi said, adding that to bring stability to the world and make it a better place, BRICS countries must seize the historical initiative, rally the Global South, and advance the well-being of all humanity.
Global South countries should jointly defend the rule of law in international affairs, safeguard the basic norms of international relations including sovereign equality, noninterference in internal affairs, and the peaceful settlement of disputes, Xi said. It should be ensured that international law and international rules are applied to all, and free from double standards, he added.
Global South countries should hold high the banner of multilateralism, uphold the authority and role of the United Nations, and support multilateral institutions in advancing reform and increasing efficiency, Xi said.
He also called for promoting the reform of the World Trade Organization in the right direction, as well as reforming and improving the international financial architecture to increase the representation and voice of developing countries.
Global South countries should stay committed to a people-centered development philosophy and strive to deliver on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Xi said.
Global South countries should also jointly advance security governance, tackle both traditional and nontraditional security threats, and improve global climate governance, Xi said, also calling for working faster to evolve a consensus-based global AI governance framework, so that new technologies can light the way toward shared prosperity.
"It is a solidarity that unlocks partnerships, unlocks democratization of the international system, unlocks an open international system, and unlocks an inclusive international system," said Charles Onunaiju, director of the Center for China Studies in Nigeria.
Rakhim Oshakbayev, director of the TALAP Center for Applied Research in Kazakhstan and former Kazakh vice minister for investment and development, said BRICS cooperation should "bring together developing countries' shared aspirations and promote coordination and cooperation."
BRICS countries should continue seeking common interests, he said, noting that the grouping's expansion had placed greater demands on internal coordination.
GREATER BRICS COOPERATION
During the speech, Xi proposed five initiatives on "greater BRICS" cooperation in areas of AI, trade and investment facilitation, digital industry, intelligent manufacturing, and science and technology talent development.
To accomplish great things and achieve major progress, the foundation of greater BRICS cooperation must be cemented, Xi said, calling for leveraging BRICS' close ties with fellow emerging markets and Global South countries, upholding open cooperation for mutual benefit, safeguarding stable and smooth industrial and supply chains, and fostering a large integrated market.
"We should build incubators for innovation, upgrade traditional industries, develop emerging industries, and deploy future industries," Xi said.
On the open source and inclusive AI initiative, Xi said that China will be a pioneer in establishing a BRICS AI open source community, support the cooperation in developing and applying large language models, hold specialized AI seminars and training courses, and build an open ecosystem for AI.
On the trade and investment facilitation initiative, China proposes to establish a BRICS special economic zone partnership, under which countries can set up an intelligent portal, coordinate policies, and build a new frontier for open development, Xi said, adding that in an effort to cultivate new drivers of economic and trade cooperation, China will hold the BRICS Forum on Trade in Services next year.
On the digital industry cooperation initiative, Xi said that China will push for establishing a BRICS digital ecosystem cloud platform, and conduct digital skills training, technological exchange and industrial alignment, so as to jointly enable the development of the digital economy.
On the intelligent manufacturing cooperation initiative, China stands ready to assist fellow BRICS countries in building smart factories and developing standards and norms, and jointly promote manufacturing transformation and upgrading, he said.
On the science and technology talent development initiative, China proposes to set up a BRICS engineer cultivation alliance for joint development of engineers and mutual recognition of competency standards, Xi said, adding that China will launch a BRICS youth exchange program for scientific and technological innovation, so as to cultivate more high-caliber talent.
The five initiatives proposed by Xi focus on key areas including technology, industry, trade and talent, providing concrete pathways to lay a solid foundation for practical cooperation among the broader BRICS community, said Serik Korzhumbayev, editor-in-chief of the Delovoy Kazakhstan newspaper.
It demonstrates China's firm resolve to share the opportunities of its modernization, a reflection of the spirit of openness, inclusiveness and mutual benefit that underpins BRICS cooperation, he said.■