TITLE:
Xi calls on China, Jordan to further deepen alignment of development strategies

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260824/15d3b002eebc464a8b9448408a7bd441/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, who is on a state visit to China, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24, 2026. (Xinhua/Li Xiang)
BEIJING, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- China and Jordan should further deepen the alignment of development strategies, Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Monday.
Both sides should enhance cooperation in traditional fields including economy and trade, infrastructure construction, transportation and mining, expand new drivers of cooperation in digital economy, artificial intelligence and green energy, and comprehensively deepen exchanges in education, culture, science and technology, tourism and other areas, Xi said when holding talks with King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein in Beijing.
Xi noted that in 2015, the two heads of state jointly announced the establishment of China-Jordan strategic partnership, opening a new chapter in the development of bilateral relations.
Facing an international and regional situation characterized by intertwined changes and chaos, building a more substantive and dynamic China-Jordan relationship is in line with the common expectations of the two peoples and also conforms to the general trend of the pursuit of the Global South for strength through unity, he said.
Xi emphasized that China attaches great importance to Jordan's unique and significant role in the region, firmly supports Jordan in safeguarding its national sovereignty, security and development interests, and is willing to maintain close exchanges with Jordan at all levels including the governments, political parties, legislative bodies and localities, and enhance exchanges of experience in governance.
China is willing to work with Jordan to implement the four major global initiatives, enhance coordination and cooperation in multilateral institutions including the United Nations, jointly safeguard the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order underpinned by international law, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, Xi said.
King Abdullah II said Jordan and China have established a strong strategic partnership, with fruitful cooperation across various fields. He said Jordan firmly upholds the one-China policy and regards Taiwan as part of China's territory.
Jordan places high priority on its relations with China and is dedicated to expanding cooperation and exchanges in economy and trade, manufacturing, agriculture, science and technology, pharmaceuticals, culture and education, King Abdullah II said, adding that Jordan welcomes more Chinese enterprises to invest there to achieve common development and prosperity.
Jordan speaks highly of the four global initiatives put forward by President Xi and looks forward to China's greater leading role on the global stage, King Abdullah II said.
After the talks, the two heads of state jointly attended a signing ceremony for multiple cooperation documents in areas such as diplomacy, economy and trade, industrial and supply chains, and justice.
The two sides also issued a joint statement on deepening the strategic partnership between China and Jordan.
Prior to the talks in the Great Hall of the People, Xi held a welcome ceremony for King Abdullah II. Xi also hosted a welcome banquet for him in the evening. ■
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcome ceremony for King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein in the Northern Hall of the Great Hall of the People prior to their talks in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24, 2026. Xi held talks with King Abdullah II, who is on a state visit to China, in Beijing on Monday. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan)
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds a welcome ceremony for King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein in the Northern Hall of the Great Hall of the People prior to their talks in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24, 2026. Xi held talks with King Abdullah II, who is on a state visit to China, in Beijing on Monday. (Xinhua/Shen Hong)
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, who is on a state visit to China, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24, 2026. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan)