TITLE:
Xi calls for SCO to strive for higher quality development, promote better global governance

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-02

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260902/5627c76a08d34ce6b9fac697abff378b/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
* China is ready to work with all parties to continue to strive for higher quality development, and make the global governance system more just and equitable, Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday during the 26th Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the "SCO Plus" meeting.
* At the crossroads concerning the future of humanity, the SCO should shoulder its historic responsibility and take the initiative in steering the course of history, he said.
* At the "SCO Plus" meeting, Xi called on the SCO to shoulder the responsibility of the times and work together to advance a more just and equitable global governance system, as well as an equal and orderly multipolar world.
BISHKEK, Sept. 1 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Tuesday that China is ready to work with all parties to continue to strive for higher quality development, and make the global governance system more just and equitable.
Xi made the remarks in his speeches at the 26th Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and the "SCO Plus" meeting held in the Kyrgyz capital of Bishkek.
PUTTING DEVELOPMENT FIRST
This year marks the 25th founding anniversary of the SCO. Xi said that over the past 25 years, the most significant achievement of the organization has been its gradual transformation into a new type of regional cooperation organization that spans the largest geographical area, represents the largest population, and possesses enormous development potential in the world.
The SCO's most important experience for cooperation is that it has found the right way of coexistence featuring non-alliances, non-confrontation and not targeting any third party, while bringing countries in the region together to build a common home, he added.
At the crossroads concerning the future of humanity, the SCO should shoulder its historic responsibility and take the initiative in steering the course of history, he said.
Xi put forward a four-point proposal at the summit, calling on the SCO to stay committed to putting development and the people first, taking security as a key goal, and promoting dialogue and consultation.
The SCO, Xi said, should champion a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, consolidate cooperation in traditional areas such as trade and investment, connectivity, energy and resources, and expand cooperation in emerging areas such as artificial intelligence (AI), digital economy, green industry and green mining.
China will develop an international AI application cooperation center with fellow SCO countries, establish a China-SCO port economic cooperation center in Tianjin, and implement 100 technological cooperation projects with other SCO countries in the next three years, he said.
The SCO should pursue coordinated measures to tackle traditional and non-traditional security threats, Xi said, adding that the organization must prevent external forces from interfering in internal affairs, endangering political security, and undermining regional stability.
China stands ready to work with all parties to act on the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and support the early opening of the SCO's four security centers, so as to upgrade the capacity of member states in responding to security threats and challenges, Xi said.
According to Alexey Mukhin, director general of the Centre for Political Information in Moscow, the outcomes of the SCO summit demonstrated that all member states are focusing on development and security priorities, and working together to address threats and challenges and promote long-term development through effective mechanisms within the SCO framework.
This not only serves the common interests of all parties, but also contributes to improving regional and global governance, Mukhin said.
China stands ready to work with all parties to implement the Global Civilization Initiative, Xi said, adding that China will host SCO forums on innovation and sustainable development, on people-to-people friendship and on friendship cities, as well as establish a China-SCO basic education cooperation center.
The SCO should always advocate that all countries, regardless of their size, are equal, and that regional affairs should be discussed by all countries to bridge differences and build consensus, properly handle differences through dialogue and consultation, and meet common challenges through multilateral collaboration, Xi said.
ADVANCING GLOBAL GOVERNANCE
At the "SCO Plus" meeting, Xi called on the SCO to shoulder the responsibility of the times and work together to advance a more just and equitable global governance system, as well as an equal and orderly multipolar world.
In his address, Xi noted that the trend toward a multipolar world is irreversible, and multipolarity, independent choice of development paths, and greater democracy in international relations are the right way forward.
Xi said that in recent years, the rise of the Global South is driving a profound shift in the international balance of power. As an important part of a multipolar world and a key driving force behind it, the Global South countries ought to have greater representation and voice in international affairs, he said.
Xi said that as a responsible major country, China advocates for an equal and orderly multipolar world, in which sovereign equality and mutual respect should be upheld as fundamental principles, balance, order and the rule of law as essential requirements, multipolarism, dialogue and consultation as key pathways, and mutual benefit, win-win cooperation and universally beneficial and inclusive development as the way forward.
"Major countries in particular should take the lead in observing international norms and honoring the rule of law, and work together to tackle global challenges," Xi said.
China, as a major country, has set an example in this regard and played a leading role, said Seun Sam, a policy analyst at the Royal Academy of Cambodia.
"Major countries taking the lead in abiding by international law can have a demonstrative effect, help safeguard the sovereignty and interests of small countries like Cambodia, promote mutual trust among countries, and achieve peaceful coexistence," he said.
Xi called on countries to promote the common values of humanity, advance the rule of law in international relations, restore the authority and vitality of the United Nations, and improve the coordination and efficiency of global and regional multilateral mechanisms.
"We should focus on the development agenda, uphold openness and cooperation, and bridge the digital and AI divides, so that technological revolution and development achievements can benefit all nations," Xi said.
Rahmon Ulmasov, a professor at the Russian-Tajik (Slavonic) University, said that with its deep experience in multilateral cooperation, the SCO has developed mature practices for transcending differences, building consensus and fostering cooperation.
It enables countries with different political systems, cultural traditions and interests to engage in equal dialogue and practical cooperation, precisely what is needed to build a more just and equitable global governance system, Ulmasov said.
Highlighting the role of the SCO, Xi put forward three proposals for the organization to advance common prosperity, promote the development and rise of the Global South, and guide the reform and improvement of global governance, to make greater contributions to an equal and orderly multipolar world.
As an important pillar of South-South cooperation, the SCO should carry forward the Shanghai Spirit, strengthen and expand the "SCO Plus" partnerships, and jointly speak up for peace, foster synergy for development, build bridges for cooperation, and pave the way for win-win outcomes, Xi said.
"Let us take the people-centered and action-oriented approach, jointly advocate an equal and orderly multipolar world, make global governance more just and equitable, and build a community with a shared future for humanity," Xi said. ■