TITLE:
Xi kicks off state visit to Kyrgyzstan, hailing "golden period" of cooperation

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-31

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260831/b47a215c746d4aa192718ef8fe7e1329/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
* Chinese President Xi Jinping said that during the visit he will have in-depth exchanges of views with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov on China-Kyrgyzstan relations, cooperation in various fields between the two countries, and international and regional issues of common concern, and draw a new blueprint for building a China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future.
* People across Kyrgyzstan see Xi's visit as an important opportunity to deepen political trust, expand mutually beneficial cooperation, and boost people-to-people ties, which will inject new impetus into bilateral relations.
BISHKEK, Aug. 30 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping landed in Bishkek on Sunday for a state visit to Kyrgyzstan and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit 2026.
The China-Kyrgyzstan cooperation has ushered in a "golden period" of rapid development, Xi said in a written speech delivered upon his arrival.
TIME-HONORED FRIENDSHIP
Noting that China and Kyrgyzstan share a time-honored traditional friendship, Xi said that the majestic Tianshan Mountains stand as witnesses to the millennia of friendly exchanges between their peoples.
Over the 34 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, the China-Kyrgyzstan relationship has withstood the test of a changing international landscape, maintained sound and stable development throughout, and reached the high level of a comprehensive strategic partnership for a new era, Xi said.
In recent years, bilateral trade volume and people-to-people exchanges have reached new highs, Xi said, noting that major projects including the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway have been successfully implemented, and the tangible results of mutually beneficial cooperation have broadly benefited the two peoples.
Xi said that during the visit he will have in-depth exchanges of views with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov on China-Kyrgyzstan relations, cooperation in various fields between the two countries, and international and regional issues of common concern, and draw a new blueprint for building a China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future.
"I look forward to attending the SCO Bishkek Summit, working with all parties to revisit the 25-year development experience of the SCO, jointly discuss cooperation plans, create the future of the organization, and promote the continuous new development of the SCO," Xi said.
HIGH-QUALITY DEVELOPMENT OF TIES
Ahead of his state visit to Kyrgyzstan and attendance at the SCO summit, Xi on Friday published a signed article titled "Jointly Opening up New Prospects for the High-Quality Development of China-Kyrgyzstan Relations" in the Slovo Kyrgyzstana and the Kabar National News Agency.
Noting that it will be his third visit to this beautiful land, Xi said he looks forward to working with President Japarov to map out a new blueprint for China-Kyrgyzstan relations and make new progress in building an SCO community with a shared future.
Describing the two countries' relations as a "golden model" of good-neighborly friendship and mutually beneficial cooperation, Sheradil Baktygulov, director of the Kyrgyz Institute of World Politics in Bishkek, said high-level exchanges have provided clear strategic guidance for the deepening of bilateral relations and closer coordination between the two countries in international affairs.
In the signed article, Xi said that China and Kyrgyzstan are good neighbors sharing weal and woe, good partners with a shared future, and good friends who help each other succeed.
"When a neighboring country is genuinely happy about your success, that sincerity is truly precious. It reflects President Xi's respect for Kyrgyzstan, its people and the development path they have chosen," said former Kyrgyz Foreign Minister Alikbek Jekshenkulov. Noting the improved understanding between the two peoples, Jekshenkulov said such mutual understanding has kept bilateral friendship enduring and vibrant, allowing it to be passed down from generation to generation.
In February 2025, Xi and Japarov reached important common understandings on further deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership for the new era and building a China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future defined by good-neighborliness, friendship and shared prosperity. The decision opened a new chapter of bilateral relations.
In the signed article, Xi said China and Kyrgyzstan have complementary economies and immense cooperation potential. Despite sluggish global growth, the two countries' business cooperation has continued to make steady progress.
Tolonbek Abdyrov, professor of economics and vice rector of the International Higher School of Medicine in Kyrgyzstan, said the two countries enjoy enormous potential for cooperation. "Chinese investment has not only enabled Kyrgyzstan to implement a number of major infrastructure, energy and industrial projects, but has also created opportunities to accelerate the country's modernization."
Noting that Xi's signed article provides strong guidance for the sustainable development of bilateral cooperation, Kyrgyz economist Iskender Sharsheev said: "The two sides enjoy enormous potential for cooperation in such fields as the digital economy, green energy, and artificial intelligence."
In the article, Xi also called on the two sides to solidify good-neighborliness and friendship, pursue mutual benefit and win-win results, carry forward the traditional friendship, and practice multilateralism.
Xi said China is ready to work with Kyrgyzstan to steadily advance their multifaceted cooperation, channel the streams of the two peoples' goodwill into the river of the two nations' friendship, and jointly open up new prospects for the high-quality development of China-Kyrgyzstan relations.
On the SCO summit, Xi said China is convinced that with the concerted efforts of all sides, this year's SCO summit will be a crowning success and provide fresh impetus for carrying forward the Shanghai Spirit and building an SCO community with a shared future.
Professor Almazbek Akmataliev, former rector of the Academy of Public Administration under the President of Kyrgyzstan, said in today's international environment, Xi's call for further carrying forward the Shanghai Spirit has become increasingly relevant.
HOPES FOR GREATER COOPERATION
People across Kyrgyzstan see Xi's visit as an important opportunity to deepen political trust, expand mutually beneficial cooperation, and boost people-to-people ties, which will inject new impetus into bilateral relations.
"We are witnessing one of the most meaningful and fruitful periods in the history of Kyrgyz-Chinese relations," said Jekshenkulov. Xi's visit will represent not only another milestone, but also an opportunity to elevate bilateral ties to a new level, he said.
Kanaiym Baktygulova, former Kyrgyz ambassador to China, has witnessed the development of bilateral ties at close range. She said the political wisdom and strategic vision of the two leaders have provided a solid foundation for the growth of bilateral relations and charted a clear course for future cooperation.
Baktygulova said she expected Xi to put forward new proposals for deepening mutual political trust and expanding win-win cooperation.
Noting that Kyrgyzstan is implementing its National Development Program until 2030 and China is advancing the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030), Elkinbek Ashirbaev, governor of Kyrgyzstan's Chui region, voiced his hope that Xi's visit will help bring the two countries' development strategies into closer alignment.
For Kyrgyz economist Abdyrov, China's experience in infrastructure, industrial modernization and the clean energy industry is particularly relevant to his country's development needs.
Abdyrov also sees useful lessons in China's approach to long-term development. Strategic planning and consistent industrial policies can offer insights into Kyrgyzstan's pursuit of sustainable growth, he said, adding that the visit could encourage further exchanges on governance.
In recent years, people-to-people and cultural exchanges between China and Kyrgyzstan have continued to deepen and yield tangible results. Zhyldyz Bakashova, director of the State Book Chamber, said she expects Xi's visit to promote further cooperation in book publishing and translation, helping readers in both countries better understand each other's cultures.
The two countries are also working together to study and protect cultural heritage through the China-Kyrgyzstan Belt and Road Joint Laboratory on Cultural Heritage Conservation.
"By studying and protecting cultural heritage together, we have gained a deeper understanding of the histories of both countries," said Aisin Duishanalieva, the laboratory's Kyrgyz director, expecting the leaders' meeting to offer further support to that collaboration.
At a time of heightened global uncertainty, Kyrgyz-China collaboration in the United Nations, the SCO and other multilateral forums has become increasingly valuable, said Baktygulov, highlighting China's support for Kyrgyzstan's successful election in June as a non-permanent member of the UN Security Council.
Baktygulov said he expects the visit to strengthen bilateral communication and coordination on regional and global affairs, and promote joint efforts to maintain regional stability, enhance dialogue and seek solutions to hotspot issues.
(Video reporters: Xinhua correspondents; Video editors: Liang Wanshan, Zhao Xiaoqing, Shi Peng, Li Qin, Zhu Jianhui, Lin Lin) ■