TITLE:
Xi puts forward four principles on Palestinian question

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260824/e25a4c5d94e34baa9dc115f2151224d5/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein, who is on a state visit to China, at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 24, 2026. (Xinhua/Li Xiang)
BEIJING, Aug. 24 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping stressed on Monday that four principles should be followed to push for the resolution of the Palestinian question, which is at the heart of the Middle East issue.
Xi made the remarks in talks with King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein in Beijing.
First, a political settlement should be upheld. The two-state solution is the right direction, and efforts should be made to restart peace talks between Palestine and Israel, with a view to establishing an independent Palestinian state at an early date, Xi said.
Second, the principle of "Palestinians governing Palestine" should be followed in advancing the governance of the West Bank and the post-war reconstruction of Gaza, he said.
Third, humanitarian principles must be upheld. The international community, and the UN Security Council in particular, should shoulder its responsibility effectively to protect civilian safety, ensure the flow of humanitarian assistance, and put an end to humanitarian disasters, Xi said.
Fourth, fairness and justice must be upheld. This means following international law, addressing both symptoms and root causes, and taking practical actions so that the Palestinian question can be resolved in a comprehensive, just and lasting way at an early date, he said.
On the Middle East situation, Xi said China has always advocated a comprehensive ceasefire and end of hostilities, and resolving disputes through political and diplomatic means, adding that the sovereignty and security of Jordan and all other countries in the region should be respected.
Noting Jordan appreciates China's impartial stance on Middle East affairs and its support for the just cause of Arab countries, King Abdullah II said Jordan is ready to maintain close communication with China and continue to make active efforts for de-escalation. ■