TITLE:
Xi, Japarov chart new course for China-Kyrgyzstan ties

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-31

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260831/8fe686171bc04a6dbc7336f7ac96bf4a/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan pose for a group photo with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov and his wife Aigul Japarova in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. Xi held talks with Japarov here on Monday. (Xinhua/Yan Yan)
BISHKEK, Aug. 31 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping said here on Monday that China stands ready to work with Kyrgyzstan to deliver more practical cooperation outcomes that are tangible and accessible.
Xi made the remarks during talks with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov. Xi landed in Bishkek on Sunday for a state visit to Kyrgyzstan and to attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit 2026.
The visit came as the China-Kyrgyzstan cooperation has ushered in a "golden period" of rapid development, as noted by Xi in a written speech delivered upon his arrival, with the two countries working to translate their longstanding friendship and strong political mutual trust into broader cooperation and greater benefits for their people.
DEEPENING TRUST, BUILDING A SHARED FUTURE
The visit coincides with the 35th anniversary of Kyrgyzstan's independence. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, Xi first extended greetings to Japarov on the occasion of Kyrgyzstan's Independence Day.
Xi said that in recent years, China-Kyrgyzstan relations have achieved leapfrog development under the joint guidance of the two leaders, with cooperation across all fields flourishing, boosting the development of both countries and bringing benefits to their people, while also contributing to peace, stability and prosperity in the region.
Xi noted that this year marks the 105th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the launch of China's 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030).
China is building a great country in all respects and advancing the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation on all fronts through Chinese modernization, Xi said, noting that Kyrgyzstan is also making every effort to implement its National Development Program until 2030.
China stands ready to work with Kyrgyzstan to strengthen the alignment of development strategies, deepen exchanges on governance experience, and make substantive progress in building a China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future, he added.
Xi noted that high-level political mutual trust and firm mutual support are crucial to ensuring the steady and sustained development of China-Kyrgyzstan relations.
China firmly supports Kyrgyzstan in safeguarding its national sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, as well as pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions, Xi said, adding that China stands ready to work with the Kyrgyz side to continue firmly supporting each other on issues involving each other's core interests.
For his part, Japarov said he was honored to welcome Xi to Kyrgyzstan on the occasion of the 35th anniversary of the country's independence. The visit further demonstrated the profound friendship and high-level political mutual trust between Kyrgyzstan and China, and marked an important milestone in the history of bilateral relations, he said.
Japarov said Kyrgyzstan and China are neighboring countries, and the ancient Silk Road has closely connected the two nations. In recent years, with the rapid development of the Kyrgyzstan-China comprehensive strategic partnership for a new era, bilateral relations have entered a golden period and reached an unprecedented level, he said.
He expressed gratitude to China for its selfless support and assistance at every critical moment in Kyrgyzstan's development, while extending warm congratulations on the 105th anniversary of the founding of the CPC and the launch of the implementation of China's 15th Five-Year Plan.
Japarov also expressed admiration for the remarkable development achievements China has made under the leadership of Xi, and voiced willingness to learn from China's experience in state governance, particularly Xi's commitment to the people, as embodied in his words, "I will fully commit to the people and never fail them."
China has always been a priority in Kyrgyzstan's foreign policy, as well as Kyrgyzstan's closest friend and most reliable partner, Japarov said, noting that Kyrgyzstan firmly adheres to the one-China principle and stands ready to further develop good-neighborly and friendly relations with China on the basis of mutual respect, equality and mutual benefit.
EXPANDING PRACTICAL COOPERATION, DELIVERING TANGIBLE BENEFITS
Xi urged the two countries to deepen practical cooperation, effectively implement the intergovernmental economic and trade cooperation plan, diversify trade products and develop new growth areas such as digital trade and cross-border e-commerce.
Xi also said the two sides should ensure the high-quality construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, calling it a major transportation artery that carries the development aspirations of the people across the region.
He called for modernizing border ports and deepening "soft connectivity" in institutions, standards and rules, and urged the launch of more landmark projects in renewable energy, resource recycling and other fields, the implementation of cooperation documents on green minerals, and cooperation across the entire industrial chain.
Xi said China and Kyrgyzstan should make joint efforts to successfully build the Belt and Road Joint Laboratory, enhance artificial intelligence cooperation, and leverage scientific and technological innovation to boost the quality and efficiency of bilateral cooperation.
The two sides should further facilitate exchanges and expand cooperation in youth affairs, media, tourism, sports, health care and local affairs, while continuing to strengthen the social and public support for China-Kyrgyzstan friendship, Xi added.
For his part, Japarov said Kyrgyzstan is willing to strengthen cooperation with China in trade and investment, connectivity, technological innovation, energy, mineral resources and the green economy, as well as deepen exchanges in education, health, culture and youth sectors.
Kyrgyzstan is ready to actively advance the construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, so as to turn it into a "steel Silk Road" for the new era and a new bond of friendship between the two countries, Japarov said.
JOINING HANDS FOR PEACE AND DEVELOPMENT
China and Kyrgyzstan should expand cooperation in law enforcement and security, work together to combat the "three evil forces" of terrorism, extremism and separatism, drug trafficking and transnational crimes, and jointly maintain regional peace and stability, Xi said.
China supports Kyrgyzstan in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs, Xi said, noting that China is willing to further enhance collaboration with Kyrgyzstan within the framework of the United Nations, jointly implement the four major global initiatives, oppose hegemonism and power politics, adhere to true multilateralism, safeguard international fairness and justice, and promote the building of a more just and equitable global governance system.
Noting that China and Kyrgyzstan are both founding members of the SCO, Xi said the two countries should promote the implementation of the outcomes of the Tianjin Summit, facilitate common development in the region, and advance the development of the SCO to a new level.
For his part, Japarov said that the four global initiatives proposed by President Xi help countries work together to address common challenges and build a more just and stable international order.
Kyrgyzstan stands ready to closely coordinate with China on multilateral platforms, including the United Nations, the SCO, the China-Central Asia mechanism and the World AI Cooperation Organization, to jointly safeguard world peace and stability, Japarov said.
Following the talks, the two heads of state signed a joint declaration of the People's Republic of China and the Kyrgyz Republic on the high-quality development of the comprehensive strategic partnership for a new era and a bilateral treaty on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation.
The signing of the bilateral treaty on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation will provide an important legal foundation for the everlasting friendship and firm mutual support between the two countries, Xi said.
Echoing Xi, Japarov said the signing of the treaty will open up broader prospects for bilateral relations.
They also jointly witnessed the exchange of bilateral cooperation documents in the fields of investment, transportation, customs, and sister-city relations.
During the visit, the two sides also signed over 20 cooperation documents covering science and technology, education, culture, media, and other areas. ■
Chinese President Xi Jinping, accompanied by Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov, inspects the guard of honor during a welcome ceremony in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. Xi held talks with Japarov here on Monday. (Xinhua/Wang Ye)
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. (Xinhua/Yan Yan)
Chinese President Xi Jinping attends a welcome ceremony held by Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. (Xinhua/Li Renzi)
Chinese President Xi Jinping attends a welcome ceremony held by Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. (Xinhua/Zhai Jianlan)
Chinese President Xi Jinping attends a welcome ceremony held by Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)