TITLE:
Xinhua Commentary: Hong Kong's first 5-year blueprint charts clear course for development

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-17

SOURCE:
Xinhua English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.news.cn/20260917/41fdb99811c54e42b7fb4bc01da91d73/c.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
HONG KONG, Sept. 17 (Xinhua) -- The first five-year plan of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) is of milestone significance in advancing the practice of "one country, two systems" and marks a crucial step for Hong Kong to expedite the transition from stability to prosperity and achieve high-quality development.
The guiding document unveiled on Wednesday charts a clear course for Hong Kong's economic and social development from 2026 to 2030.
The formulation of the plan reflects a profound shift in Hong Kong's governance approach and development model, demonstrating the notable improvement in the governance capacity of the HKSAR government under "one country, two systems."
Built on consensus from all sectors of Hong Kong society, the blueprint will further enhance the HKSAR's governance efficacy, making the development direction clearer, resource allocation more efficient, and social expectations more stable, and providing stronger safeguards for the well-being of its residents and the interests of investors.
The plan will consolidate and enhance Hong Kong's status as an international financial, maritime and trade center, and develop the region into an international innovation and technology center and a global hub for high-caliber talent.
The blueprint comes as Hong Kong's economic growth gains momentum, with social stability and prosperity providing an indispensable environment and foundation for the city to implement medium- and long-term planning. The Hong Kong society has been calling for a more forward-looking and holistic blueprint for development.
One of the underlying principles of the plan is to uphold the two-pronged approach of "effective market" and "capable government." Far from weakening the market, this governance innovation strengthens strategic guidance, unleashes market vitality, and turns institutional advantages into real development gains. It provides Hong Kong with a powerful tool to tackle long-standing deep-seated problems and gives full play to the advantages and vitality of the "one country, two systems" policy.
This year marks the start of the national 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030), which includes arrangements for promoting the long-term prosperity and stability of the HKSAR and the Macao SAR by supporting the two regions in consolidating and enhancing their competitive advantages, and helping them better integrate into and contribute to the country's overall development.
Aligned with the national five-year plan, the HKSAR's blueprint seeks to turn the country's strategic opportunities into the region's development drivers.
Hong Kong's plan will leverage the vast mainland market and its comprehensive industrial system, while exerting the city's role as an international platform. It aims to further develop Hong Kong as a gateway and bridge between the country and the world, and as an international metropolis that is more attractive, vibrant and rich in opportunities.
A blueprint is only as valuable as its implementation. As long as all sectors of the Hong Kong society fully and faithfully uphold "one country, two systems," adhere to the principle of "patriots administering Hong Kong," maintain and improve its executive-led governance, enable a capable government to deliver results and an effective market to unleash its full potential, and make concerted efforts, the HKSAR will surely translate its grand blueprint into reality. ■