TITLE:
China's global initiatives offer new opportunities for cooperation, says Italian business leader

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24 08:50:00

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202608/1368864.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Guests attend the 4th China-Italy Friendship Cities Cooperation Dialogue in Rome, Italy, April 16, 2026. (Xinhua/Li Jing)
The China-proposed four global initiatives offer a new perspective on international governance and new opportunities for international cooperation amid geopolitical fragmentation and global instability, said an Italian business leader.
The initiatives represent China's efforts to provide coordinated responses to challenges that transcend national borders, Mario Boselli, president of the Italy-China Foundation, said in a recent interview with Xinhua.
They also represent a deepening of China's international vision following more than a decade of the Belt and Road Initiative, extending the focus from economic and infrastructure cooperation to development, security, dialogue among civilizations and global governance, he said.
He believes that the Global Development Initiative (GDI) and the Global Civilization Initiative (GCI) could offer opportunities to deepen cooperation between China and Europe, including Italy.
The GDI's focus on climate change, the UN Sustainable Development Goals, digitalization and technological innovation could create opportunities for cooperation in renewable energy, photovoltaics and energy storage, among others, said Boselli.
Italy and China can also strengthen cooperation among universities and research institutions in biotechnology, healthcare, artificial intelligence and advanced manufacturing, he added.
Noting that the GCI could promote cooperation in culture, heritage conservation, universities and youth exchanges, he said Italy, with its rich cultural heritage and the strong appeal of "Made in Italy" in China, is "one of the most natural European partners" for such initiatives.
Taken together, the four initiatives outline a vision of a multipolar world with greater participation by emerging economies and countries of the Global South, Boselli said.
With its tradition of dialogue with China and complementary economic strengths, Italy can play a bridging role between China and Europe, promoting practical cooperation in sustainable development, innovation, culture and global governance, he said.
China's initiatives may not provide an immediate solution to current international tensions, but can offer "a space for reflection and dialogue" to identify more inclusive, practical and long-term forms of cooperation, he added.