TITLE:
Chinese desert fighter hosts American donor with home cooking in reunion across 27 years

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24 17:27:33

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/galleries/6307.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Editor's Note:
Chinese desert fighter Yin Yuzhen hosts American teacher Ronald Sakolsky on Monday at her home, giving the long-awaited reunion the aroma of family cooking.
In 1999, Sakolsky raised $5,000 to fund Yin's tree-planting initiative. The finger-thin saplings bought with the donation have since matured into more than 50,000 full-grown trees in the once-barren Mu Us Desert in Inner Mongolia.
The harsh wasteland where Yin cooked plain noodles for Sakolsky nearly three decades ago, has become vibrant green land. The vegetables and fruits offered are grown from the farmland transformed through unwavering afforestation efforts. 
Yin told the Global Times earlier that she had learned English word "more," to persuade him to eat more. Now, it is the time for a warm family banquet.
During a roomtour of Yin's homes, including the one that he saw in 1999, Sakolsky is impressed by the efforts to build a beautiful garden house out of nothing, saying "You deserve every centimeter of this house." 
         Sakolsky and Yin enjoy watermelons and other fruits at Yin's home. Photo: Lin Xiaoyi/GT    Yin Yunzhen introduces to Sakolsky the harvest from the once-barren wasteland. Photo: Lin Xiaoyi/GT    Yin Yunzhen introduces to Sakolsky the harvest from the once-barren wasteland. Photo: Lin Xiaoyi/GT    Yin Yunzhen introduces to Sakolsky the harvest from the once-barren wasteland. Photo: Lin Xiaoyi/GT    Sakolsky gives a tight hug with emotion to Bai Fan, who he got to know in the education exchange program and accompanied him to Mu Us Desert in 1999. Photo: Lin Xiaoyi/GT    The two-story house Yin and her family live in. Photo: He Shan/GT    The third house Yin and her family built in 1993. It was also the house Sakolsky saw in 1999. Photo: He Shan/GT    A replica of Yin couple’s home from 1986 to 1993. Photo: He Shan/GT    A replica of the sunken pit Yin and her husband resided in when she first came to Mu Us Desert in 1985. Photo: He Shan/GT    Picture of a file photo taken in 1999 showing Yin, Sakolsky, Bai Fan (first from left) and other guests standing in front of Yin’s sunken pit home. Photo: Lin Xiaoyi/GT