TITLE:
China's MPS handles over 36,000 cyber-related cases so far this year during 'Clean Net' campaign

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-17 15:39:00

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202609/1370743.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
A prosecutor from the Hongze district people's procuratorate in Huai'an, East China's Jiangsu Province, teaches local primary school students about online safety and cybersecurity on September 16, 2026. Photo: VCG
China's Ministry of Public Security (MPS) have handled more than 36,000 cases involving cyber-related illegal and criminal activities so far this year as part of its "Clean Net 2026" campaign, the ministry announced on Thursday, while also disclosing 10 typical cases involving cyberbullying and staging and fabricating content. 
According to a statement released by the MPS, in response to the frequent spread of online rumors involving accidents and disasters, as well as economic and livelihood issues, through fabricated facts, manipulated content and AI-generated material, the cybersecurity authorities within public security organs have conducted rapid investigations and taken swift action, solving more than 11,000 related cases so far this year, while promptly conducting rumor-debunking campaigns and responding to public concerns.
According to Wang Sixin, vice dean and professor at the School of Politics and Law at the Communication University of China, sustained and stringent crackdowns by the authorities are essential to tackling evolving forms of cybercrime. 
While conventional physical crimes in the real world are on a downward trend, cybercrime continues to evolve and take new forms. Therefore, the police's ongoing efforts to crack down on various types of cybercrime play a vital role in maintaining social order, protecting citizens' lives and property, and even eliminating potential threats to public security, Wang told the Global Times on Thursday. He strongly supports sustained police crackdowns on emerging crimes, saying swift action is essential to prevent them from becoming normalized threats to public safety and citizens' lives, health and property.
Among the 10 typical cases released by the MPS was a case involving a suspect surnamed Qin who cyberbullied a village official engaged in flood-control and disaster-relief efforts. During severe flooding in Shimen county, Changde, Central China's Hunan Province in May, a village Party branch secretary who had worked on the front line drew widespread empathy and attention for her disaster-relief effort during a media interview. Some netizens later criticized her for wearing jewelry during interview, posted disparaging comments, and subjected her to further cyberbullying. Police in multiple places including Hunan, Inner Mongolia and Hebei cracked down on 15 related cyberbullying cases and imposed administrative penalties on offenders involved.
The cybersecurity authorities have also cracked more than 4,100 cases involving theft, sale and illegal disclosure of citizens' personal information, including through "doxxing" and unauthorized record searches, in response to the prevalence of such illegal and criminal activities. 
Besides, the authorities have so far handled more than 3,900 hacking cases that threaten social and public order, market and tax security, system and data security, ecological and environmental security, as well as production and transportation safety against the background of continuous evolution of hacking techniques, increasing sophistication of criminal tools and lowering barriers to entry for cybercrime.
According to Wang, although some criminal activities take place in cyberspace, their underlying causes and triggers are not necessarily rooted online. They may also stem from issues in people's real-world social lives. Therefore, such problems should be addressed from a more systematic perspective. If the underlying causes lie in the real world, we need to tackle the social issues that give rise to or influence such behavior in order to address the problem at its root, Wang said. 
In addition, cybercrime is becoming increasingly organized and diverse, requiring a systemic approach that extends beyond software and platforms to device-level prevention. With AI-powered devices becoming more prevalent, preventive measures at these entry points are also needed, Wang added.
The authorities have been targeting MCN agencies and online paid posters behind rumors while strengthening industry oversight, platform algorithm governance and monitoring of AI-generated content to curb the spread of online rumors. 
The authorities have also launched a strict crackdown on illegal and criminal activities including rumor-mongering, public-opinion extortion, traffic manipulation and paid post deletions, with more than 190 related cases solved so far. 
In response to the serious infringement of citizens' lawful rights and interests, the authorities have launched a comprehensive crackdown on offenses including doxxing and targeted harassment, insult and defamation, and "bombarding" victims with large volumes of phone calls and text messages, solving more than 2,500 related cases so far. 
Authorities have also solved more than 40 cases involving counterfeit official websites and apps used for fake authentication, document forgery, online fraud and personal-data theft, and shut down more than 250 such websites. They have also investigated more than 150 cases involving the use of websites, social media and other platforms to promote and drive traffic to crimes such as gambling, prostitution and fraud, the MPS said.