TITLE:
China's cyberspace regulator intensifies crackdown on group livestream misconduct

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24 13:44:00

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202608/1368882.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Photo of group livestream. Photo: VCG
China's cyberspace regulator has shut down more than 7,200 illegal group livestreaming rooms and penalized over 2,200 accounts as part of an intensified crackdown on misconduct in online group livestreaming entertainment. The campaign targets vulgar content, mechanisms designed to encourage excessive tipping, and infringements on minors' rights.
The Cyberspace Administration of China (CAC) has also instructed online platforms to remove or take action against a number of MCN agencies involved in serious misconduct, issued 17 notices on the campaign, and publicized typical cases to deter further violations, said regulator on its WeChat account. 
During a campaign, the CAC has sought to combine enforcement with tighter regulation by improving content review, adjusting ranking systems and interactive features, and strengthening oversight of group livestreaming accounts and MCN agencies. Online platforms have also been urged to assume greater responsibility for managing such content.
Douyin, the Chinese version of TikTok, has begun displaying information about affiliated MCN agencies on group livestreaming accounts and has organized training for agencies to curb misconduct at the source. 
Kuaishou, one of China's popular short-video platforms, has refined its review standards and strengthened technical tools to better identify vulgar content and inappropriate interactions.
WeChat Channels have introduced an identity-verification mechanism for suspected underage participants in group livestreams with the aim to preventing minors from appearing in such broadcasts in disguised or less obvious ways. Bilibili, a Chinese video platform, meanwhile, has removed features such as multiplier points, tiered bonuses and ranking competitions that could encourage viewers to spend money on virtual gifts. 
Xiaohongshu, or RedNote, Chinese equivalent of Instagram, has imposed measures including traffic restrictions to curb practices such as repetitive shouting and livestreaming competitions that lack substantive content.
The CAC said that the campaign has led to a significant decline in vulgar content in entertainment group livestreaming, while violations involving the inducement of excessive tipping have been effectively curbed.
The regulator said it will maintain strict oversight, intensify action against accounts and agencies that violate regulations, and push online platforms to improve management mechanisms and technological capabilities. It will also continue to optimize livestreaming features to foster a healthier and more orderly online entertainment environment.
Global Times