TITLE:
Indonesian President meets Chinese foreign, defense ministers, calls for overall strategic cooperation with China

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-22 15:36:00

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202608/1368756.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto meets with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Defense Minister Dong Jun in Jakarta on August 21, 2026. Photo: China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs 
Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto spoke highly of China's development achievements and called for overall strategic cooperation with China during a meeting with Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Defense Minister Dong Jun in Jakarta on Friday, according to a release from the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs.
Prabowo spoke highly of the role and achievements of the China-Indonesia Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue Mechanism and the "2+2" dialogue mechanism, saying that under President Xi Jinping's leadership, China has successfully lifted hundreds of millions of people out of poverty and achieved remarkable progress in areas including the economy, science and technology, and defense, setting an example and providing valuable lessons for Global South countries.
Prabowo said China has treated Indonesia as an equal partner, showing mutual respect and providing Indonesia with valuable confidence and support. Indonesia looks forward to strengthening all-round strategic cooperation with China in politics, economy, science and technology, and other fields. 
He welcomed more Chinese companies to invest and operate in Indonesia, saying Jakarta will continue to provide a favorable business environment for Chinese enterprises and oppose attempts to create divisions or hype up issues with ulterior motives.
Prabowo also said he looks forward to attending the APEC Economic Leaders' Meeting in Shenzhen in November this year to further strengthen strategic communication and coordination with China.
Wang Yi said that under Prabowo's leadership, Indonesia has overcome various challenges in recent years and entered a stage of accelerated national development. 
Wang said both China and Indonesia are committed to developing their economies and improving people's livelihoods, and no force can prevent China, Indonesia and other developing countries from continuing to rise.
Wang said China and Indonesia have strong complementary advantages and are reliable, long-term and stable partners in Indonesia's development process. China is willing and capable of helping Indonesia transform its resources into drivers of development, accelerate industrialization and modernization, and bring greater benefits to its people through deeper cooperation.
Wang added that the development of human society has shown that openness leads to progress while isolation results in decline. As the world faces increasing uncertainty and complex external challenges, China and Indonesia should strengthen unity, mutual trust and support, uphold open cooperation, safeguard common interests, advance their respective development and set an example of cooperation among Global South countries.
China is willing to work with Indonesia to implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, as well as the outcomes of the first Conference of China-Indonesia Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue Mechanism and the second "2+2" dialogue mechanism meeting, while advancing cooperation in politics, economy, energy and minerals, defense, security and other areas, injecting new momentum into national development and contributing to regional peace and stability, Wang said.
The Second Ministerial Meeting of China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Ministerial Dialogue was held in Jakarta on Friday. Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Defense Minister Dong Jun co-chaired the meeting with Indonesian Foreign Minister Sugiono and Defense Minister Sjafrie Sjamsoeddin, according to the Xinhua News Agency. 
Global Times