TITLE:
Tanzanian president inaugurates Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24 08:32:00

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202608/1368860.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan addresses the inauguration ceremony of the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant in Coast Region, Tanzania, Aug. 22, 2026. Hassan on Saturday inaugurated the 2,115-megawatt Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant, a landmark project expected to strengthen electricity supply and accelerate industrial and economic development. (Xinhua/Emmanuel Herman)
Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan on Saturday inaugurated the 2,115-megawatt Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant, a landmark project expected to strengthen electricity supply and accelerate industrial and economic development.
Hassan inaugurated the plant in Rufiji District in Coast Region, saying the new generation capacity should produce measurable gains in manufacturing, trade, mining, modern agriculture, public services, investment and employment.
The nine-unit facility now accounts for nearly half of electricity dispatched to Tanzania's national grid, significantly improving reliability and security of supply, she said.
"This project has demonstrated Tanzania's capabilities. We must now harness that capacity to advance other strategic projects and build a strong, self-reliant nation," Hassan said.
Built with the participation of China's Power Construction Corporation of China (PowerChina) and Dongfang Electric Corporation, the plant has a total installed capacity of 2,115 megawatts, Zhang Rui, the project manager with PowerChina, said.
PowerChina undertook the construction of the main works, including the main dam, the stilling basin, the water conveyance system, the diversion tunnels and the metal structures, as well as the overall engineering design and the supporting facilities, Zhang said.
Tan Jin, the project manager with Dongfang Electric, noted that they supplied all nine hydro-turbine generator units, main inlet valves and other complete sets of electromechanical equipment, and carried out their installation, commissioning and trial operation.
During construction, the China-involved construction work created about 14,000 jobs for local residents. Thousands of Tanzanians received professional skills training from Chinese engineers in areas such as welding, steel fixing, carpentry, heavy machinery operation and surveying, helping build a stronger local workforce, according to the two managers.
The project is also expected to improve electricity supply for households and public services, strengthen Tanzania's role in the regional energy market in East Africa, and provide reliable energy support for regional connectivity and socioeconomic development, said Humphrey Moshi, an economics professor at the University of Dar es Salaam in Tanzania. 
An aerial drone photo taken on Aug. 21, 2026 shows a view of the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant in Coast Region, Tanzania. Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan on Saturday inaugurated the 2,115-megawatt Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant, a landmark project expected to strengthen electricity supply and accelerate industrial and economic development. (Xinhua/Emmanuel Herman)
 
Local people wave flags to celebrate the inauguration of the Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant in Coast Region, Tanzania, Aug. 22, 2026. Tanzanian President Samia Suluhu Hassan on Saturday inaugurated the 2,115-megawatt Julius Nyerere Hydropower Plant, a landmark project expected to strengthen electricity supply and accelerate industrial and economic development. (Xinhua/Emmanuel Herman)