TITLE:
Xi pays tribute to national heroes on Martyrs' Day

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30 10:10:00

SOURCE:
Global Times

CATEGORY:
PRC Non-Authoritative Media

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202609/1371597.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese President Xi Jinping straightens the ribbon on a flower basket during a ceremony to present flower baskets to fallen national heroes at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2026. Xi Jinping and other leaders of the Communist Party of China and the state including Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attended the ceremony on Wednesday. The event was held to mark Martyrs' Day. Observed on Sept. 30, one day before National Day, the day commemorates those who gave their lives for national independence and prosperity. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
Chinese President Xi Jinping and other leaders of the Communist Party of China and the state including Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attend a ceremony to present flower baskets to fallen national heroes at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2026. The event was held to mark Martyrs' Day. Observed on Sept. 30, one day before National Day, the day commemorates those who gave their lives for national independence and prosperity. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
Chinese President Xi Jinping and other leaders of the Communist Party of China and the state including Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attend a ceremony to present flower baskets to fallen national heroes at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2026. The event was held to mark Martyrs' Day. Observed on Sept. 30, one day before National Day, the day commemorates those who gave their lives for national independence and prosperity. (Xinhua/Yan Yan)
Chinese President Xi Jinping and other leaders of the Communist Party of China and the state including Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attend a ceremony to present flower baskets to fallen national heroes at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2026. The event was held to mark Martyrs' Day. Observed on Sept. 30, one day before National Day, the day commemorates those who gave their lives for national independence and prosperity. (Xinhua/Shen Hong)
Chinese President Xi Jinping and other leaders of the Communist Party of China and the state including Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attend a ceremony to present flower baskets to fallen national heroes at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2026. The event was held to mark Martyrs' Day. Observed on Sept. 30, one day before National Day, the day commemorates those who gave their lives for national independence and prosperity. (Xinhua/Li Xiang)
Chinese President Xi Jinping walks around the Monument to the People's Heroes to pay tribute during a ceremony to present flower baskets to fallen national heroes at Tian'anmen Square in Beijing, capital of China, Sept. 30, 2026. Xi Jinping and other leaders of the Communist Party of China and the state including Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng attended the ceremony on Wednesday. The event was held to mark Martyrs' Day. Observed on Sept. 30, one day before National Day, the day commemorates those who gave their lives for national independence and prosperity. (Xinhua/Yue Yuewei)