TITLE:
J-16 fighters debut in China-Egypt joint drills in Africa, showcasing strong overseas deployment capability: expert

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-21 21:37:00

SOURCE:
Global Times Military

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
https://www.globaltimes.cn/page/202608/1368720.shtml

ARTICLE TEXT:
A Chinese PLA Air Force J-16 fighter jet is being refueled in mid-air by a YY-20A aerial refueling aircraft during an intercontinental deployment to Egypt for the Eagles of Civilization 2026 joint training in August 2026. Photo: official WeChat account of the PLA Air Force 
Multiple types of aircraft and personnel from the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) Air Force participating in the China-Egypt Eagles of Civilization 2026 joint training arrived at an air base in Egypt early Friday morning after an intercontinental deployment, according to an official release from the PLA Air Force. 
Notably, the exercise marks the first time China's J-16 heavy fighter jets have traveled to Africa for the China-Egypt joint training.
The joint training marks the second such exercise between the two air forces. The PLA Air Force has deployed multiple types of aircraft in an integrated and systematic formation, including fighter jets, aerial refueling aircraft, special-mission aircraft and helicopters, according to the PLA Air Force.
A video attached to the PLA Air Force release, filmed through the window of a YY-20A aerial refueling aircraft, showed a Chinese J-16 fighter jet being refueled in mid-air. Another scene showed that the YY-20A hosted in-flight refueling for two J-16s at the same time. According to the release, the aerial refueling took place en route to Egypt.
The growing types of more capable aircraft deployed in the China-Egypt joint training highlighted the PLA Air Force's capabilities to carry out rapid intercontinental strategic deployments of tactical aircraft, also demonstrating its strong overseas strategic deployment capabilities, Song Zhongping, a Chinese military affairs expert, told the Global Times on Friday.
Song said that the J-16 heavy fighter jets' first participation in the China-Egypt joint air force training marks an upgrade from last year's deployment of medium-sized J-10Cs in the drill, reflecting broader and more advanced overseas training by the Chinese Air Force. 
As a mainstay heavy fighter, the J-16 also gains valuable experience operating in unfamiliar environments, while also reflecting efforts to expose more frontline aircraft to different geographical, climatic and operational conditions through overseas joint training, the expert noted.
Unlike the J-10C, which focuses more on air superiority, the J-16 is more capable in terms of striking ground and maritime targets and carrying a heavier weapons load. Its participation could therefore expand the training to more complex multirole combat scenarios, Song said.
The PLA Air Force formation traveled more than 6,000 kilometers across two continents and four countries during a nearly nine-hour flight to Egypt. Upon arrival, personnel quickly unloaded supplies, organized equipment and carried out coordination work to prepare for training flights, according to the PLA Air Force.
The cross-border integrated deployment and rapid loading and unloading operations tested the PLA Air Force's long-range projection, agile deployment and system-of-systems operational capabilities, the release said.
A member of the PLA Air Force said that during the deployment, the aerial refueling aircraft not only carried out mid-air refueling missions but also served as an airborne command node.
The Chinese Air Force's participation in joint training in Egypt for two consecutive years with a system of forces showed that long-range overseas training is moving from capability validation toward greater maturity and normalization, Song said. 
This also reflects China's progress in building a strategic air force and extending its ability to safeguard its overseas interests, while showcasing the military confidence of China as a responsible major country, Song noted. 
The Chinese and Egyptian air forces will hold Eagles of Civilization 2026 joint training in Egypt from mid-August to early September. The training will focus on subjects including air combat tactics, air superiority operations, and combat search and rescue, and will include force employment drills, the Chinese defense ministry said.
Recently, the PLA Air Force has participated in a series of joint exercises and training activities. In August, the Air Force has announced joint training with four countries - Belarus, Thailand, Egypt and the UAE.
Following the completion of China-Thailand Falcon Strike 2026 joint air force training on Thursday, the PLA Air Force is set to kick off the "Falcon Shield 2026" joint training with the United Arab Emirates (UAE) in Hotan, Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, according to the Chinese defense ministry. 
Meanwhile, the PLA Air Force announced on Thursday that the China-Belarus Swift Eagle 2026 airborne joint training, which opened at a PLA Air Force training center on August 12, entered its comprehensive exercise phase on Wednesday.