TITLE:
Chinese premier chairs State Council executive meeting on macro policies, investment

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-28

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202609/28/content_WS6aba6b04c6d00ca5f9a0d810.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 28 -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang on Monday chaired a State Council executive meeting to discuss work related to strengthening and improving the effectiveness of macro policies and promoting effective investment.
In response to emerging challenges in the economy's operation, efforts should be made to intensify counter-cyclical adjustment of macro policies and promote innovation-driven, high-quality and sound economic development, the meeting noted, stressing that China will strive to achieve its annual economic and social development goals.
The country has targeted 2026 growth at 4.5 to 5 percent and will strive for better results in practice. In the first half of 2026, the country's gross domestic product grew 4.7 percent.
The meeting said that the issuance and utilization of various types of bonds will be accelerated, and major projects as specified in China's 15th Five-Year Plan and the "six networks" initiative, which covers water networks, new-type power grids, computing power networks, next-generation communication networks, urban underground pipeline networks and logistics networks, will be expedited in terms of project commencement.
The meeting has urged efforts to advance the renovation and upgrading of aging and dilapidated reservoirs and grain depots, and implement policies designed to expand investment and boost consumption.
According to the meeting, efforts will be made to optimize fiscal expenditure, adjust monetary policy tools in a timely manner, and increase relending support for scientific and technological innovation and technological transformation, agriculture and small businesses.
Meanwhile, the government will examine and roll out policies and measures aimed at stabilizing the real estate market and promote employment and income growth, according to the meeting.
Monday's meeting also heard a report on work related to the control of new pollutants, and deliberated and approved a draft regulation concerning the registration and management of public institutions.