TITLE:
Chinese vice premier meets Putin

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202609/03/content_WS6a9902bfc6d00ca5f9a0cfbc.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
VLADIVOSTOK, Sept. 3 -- Chinese Vice Premier Ding Xuexiang on Wednesday met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Russia's far eastern city of Vladivostok.
Ding, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, conveyed Chinese President Xi Jinping's cordial greetings to Putin.
Ding said China is ready to work with Russia to implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, deepen the integration of their interests through concrete measures, strengthen cooperation in key areas such as investment and energy, and continuously consolidate the foundation for higher-quality development of China-Russia relations.
He added that the Eastern Economic Forum, whose theme this year is "The Far East: Development for the Benefit of People," is an important platform for Asia-Pacific countries to build consensus on cooperation.
Noting that there is great potential for China and Russia to deepen cooperation in developing the Far East, Ding said the two sides should continue to make good use of cooperation mechanisms and relevant policy support, better align China's Northeast revitalization strategy with Russia's Far East development strategy, and upgrade the level and scale of cooperation to better benefit the people of both nations.
For his part, Putin asked Ding to convey his sincere greetings to Xi, and welcomed Ding to attend the 11th EEF in Vladivostok.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of the signing of the China-Russia Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation. Thanks to the joint efforts of the two countries, Russia-China relations have reached an unprecedented level, with positive progress made in cooperation across various fields, Putin said.
Russia stands ready to strengthen strategic coordination and cooperation with China to bring bilateral relations to an even higher level, he added.