TITLE:
China sets 2030 goals for logistics network development

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-28

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202608/28/content_WS6a916ab4c6d00ca5f9a0cd8f.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 28 -- China has set goals to advance the development of the country's logistics network by 2030, aiming to improve connectivity and better support the real economy, according to a plan released by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) and the Ministry of Transport.
By 2030, China expects to make notable progress in developing its logistics network with closer coordination between logistics hubs and industries, enhanced internal and external connectivity, greener and smarter facilities and equipment, and greater interoperability of rules and information, according to the plan.
The plan aims to help effectively reduce logistics costs across society, bringing total social logistics costs to 13.1 percent of GDP by 2030, down 0.8 percentage points from the end of 2025.
This will help improve the efficiency and performance of the real economy and support smoother economic circulation and high-quality development, it said.
The plan outlines 17 key tasks in seven areas, including advancing the development and connectivity of logistics hubs, enhancing the capacity of logistics corridors, addressing shortcomings in urban and rural logistics facilities, and promoting the digitalization, smart development and green transformation of logistics facilities and equipment.
The logistics network is one of the six networks prioritized during China's 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030), alongside water networks, new-type power grids, computing power networks, next-generation communication networks and urban underground pipeline networks.
The NDRC has described the six networks as an integrated whole featuring deep interconnection, mutual empowerment and coordinated support. Investment in the six networks and key areas is preliminarily estimated to exceed 7 trillion yuan (about 1.03 trillion U.S. dollars) this year.