TITLE:
China's trade promotion body steps up SCO business cooperation

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-31

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202608/31/content_WS6a956a52c6d00ca5f9a0ce52.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 31 -- The China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) has stepped up efforts this year to deepen business cooperation within the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), spokesperson Yang Fan said Monday.
Yang told a regular press conference that the efforts have focused on industrial and supply chain cooperation, business matchmaking and commercial legal services. The CCPIT serves as the lead Chinese organization for the SCO Business Council.
Six SCO member states participated in the fourth China International Supply Chain Expo in Beijing in June. Kazakhstan organized 11 companies to exhibit, while four major Pakistani banks showcased cross-border settlement services. The China-Belarus Industrial Park was cited as a flagship example of industrial-park cooperation. Companies from Kyrgyzstan and Uzbekistan also exhibited their products alongside firms from northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region in the Clean Energy Chain.
The SCO has participated in all four editions of the expo in different forms, with an SCO Business Forum taking place during the third edition.
The CCPIT has also organized Chinese business delegations to SCO member states and dialogue partners, including Belarus and Türkiye. In June, a delegation of 29 Chinese companies attended the SCO Investment Business Forum in Kyrgyzstan, which holds the SCO's 2025-2026 rotating presidency.
It has also hosted several business delegations from SCO countries and organized events such as a high-level meeting between Tajik President Emomali Rahmon and Chinese business leaders, which resulted in strong interest in future cooperation.
In the first seven months, China's national trade promotion system issued 669,500 certificates of origin for exports to SCO member states, up 9.62 percent year on year, and 561 ATA Carnets, international customs documents used for temporary imports and exports, up 45.71 percent.
Yang said the CCPIT would continue to promote closer cooperation among regional business communities and contribute to building a closer SCO community with a shared future.
This year marks the SCO's 25th anniversary. China's trade with other SCO members reached 523.5 billion U.S. dollars in 2025, accounting for 8 percent of China's total foreign trade, according to the Ministry of Commerce.