TITLE:
China issues regulations to improve management of local market regulators

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/policies/latestreleases/202609/11/content_WS6aa3f459c6d00ca5f9a0d242.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 11 -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang has signed a State Council decree promulgating regulations to strengthen the management of local market regulatory authorities nationwide. The regulations will help them better perform their duties.
The 19-article regulations, which call for streamlining local market regulatory mechanisms and optimizing the staffing of local market regulatory authorities, will take effect on Nov. 1.
According to the regulations, such authorities' duties include registering self-employed individuals within their respective administrative areas, conducting routine oversight of food production and sales, handling market complaints, and cracking down on irregularities.
Highlighting the need to improve services and foster a favorable business environment, the regulations stipulate that local market regulatory authorities must conduct regulatory activities in accordance with the law and make every effort to minimize disruption to market entities' normal production and operations.
Authorities should also strengthen communication with market entities and consumers, ensure transparency in their work, and provide standardized, convenient and efficient administrative services, according to the regulations.
Safeguarding fair market competition has remained high on China's development agenda, as the country places greater emphasis on building a unified national market and fostering a favorable business environment.
To this end, the outline of China's 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-2030) calls for greater efforts to improve market regulatory rules, unify standards and enhance regulatory capabilities, thereby fostering a market order characterized by high quality, reasonable prices and healthy competition.