TITLE:
China tightens accountability for officials regarding ecological, environmental damage

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-26

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/policies/latestreleases/202608/26/content_WS6a8e4ccbc6d00ca5f9a0cc9b.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 25 -- Chinese officials found responsible for serious ecological and environmental damage will be held accountable for life, even if they have since left their posts, according to a recently released policy document.
Issued by the General Office of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and the General Office of the State Council, the document outlines the cases that can lead to official accountability, as well as the disciplinary measures that may follow.
The accountability framework was originally released in 2015. An official with the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee said an update was necessary as China has entered a stage of high-quality development featuring accelerated green and low-carbon growth, while the CPC Central Committee has issued a series of new requirements on ecological and environmental protection in recent years.
The revised rules broaden the scope of accountability beyond leading Party and government officials to include senior officials at public institutions, development zones and state-owned enterprises.
China has pledged to bring carbon dioxide emissions to a peak before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality before 2060. The revised document specifies that local officials who fail to effectively advance these efforts will also be held accountable.
Meanwhile, the official from the Organization Department of the CPC Central Committee noted that accountability for ecological and environmental damage must be precise and evidence-based. "It should neither dampen officials' enthusiasm for work, nor undermine the credibility of the Party and the government."
China has stepped up ecological and environmental protection efforts. During the second round of the central ecological and environmental protection inspections, conducted from May 2020 to June 2022, a total of 3,371 people were held accountable. The third round of such inspections is currently underway.
The revised accountability rules also bring them into line with China's Ecological and Environmental Code, which officially took effect on Aug. 15.