TITLE:
China to implement revised regulation on power accident response, investigation

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-05

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/policies/latestreleases/202609/05/content_WS6a9b734bc6d00ca5f9a0d066.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 4 -- China will implement a revised regulation on emergency response to and investigation and handling of electric power safety accidents, as the country works to strengthen safety governance amid rapid renewable energy development and the construction of a new power system.
Chinese Premier Li Qiang has signed a State Council decree promulgating the regulation, which will take effect on Jan. 1, 2027.
The regulation, consisting of 38 articles, requires power companies and users to strengthen the screening of potential accident hazards, adjusts criteria for classifying power accidents by taking into account factors including grid scale and structural changes and the grid-related performance of power generation equipment, and clarifies the safety responsibilities of entities connected to the power grid other than power companies and users.
Power companies should formulate emergency rescue plans and conduct regular drills, according to the regulation. It also calls for improved procedures in accident investigations, requiring investigation teams to notify supervisory authorities and invite them to participate in the investigation.
China has continued to strengthen power safety governance in recent years. During the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-2025), both the number of power-related workplace accidents involving casualties and the number of fatalities declined compared with the previous five-year period.
As the country promotes a green and low-carbon transition in the energy sector and accelerates building a new power system, the power sector is also facing new situations and challenges.
In July, the National Energy Administration issued an action plan for power safety production during the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030), calling for a shift toward preventive risk management and solid efforts to prevent and defuse major systemic safety risks.
Notably, the plan calls for strengthened safety management of new-energy power generation, with improved safety standards for key scenarios including offshore wind power and new-energy bases in desert. The application of artificial intelligence in smart safety equipment will be encouraged, and the research into AI large model-based technologies for power safety management will also be promoted.