TITLE:
Chinese vice premier calls for closer China-Russia regional cooperation at Eastern Economic Forum

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-04

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202609/04/content_WS6a9a0da3c6d00ca5f9a0cfee.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
VLADIVOSTOK, Sept. 3 -- China and Russia should strengthen synergy between the Belt and Road Initiative and the development of the Eurasian Economic Union, and further align China's Northeast revitalization strategy with Russia's Far East development strategy, Chinese Vice Premier Ding Xuexiang said on Thursday.
Ding, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks while addressing the 11th Eastern Economic Forum in Russia's Far Eastern city of Vladivostok.
Under the strategic guidance of the two heads of state over the years, China-Russia regional cooperation, especially between China's Northeast and Russia's Far East, has delivered fruitful results, Ding said.
China remains the largest trading partner of Russia's Far East, he said, adding that key cooperation projects are moving forward at a faster pace, and the mutual visa-free policy has boosted both cross-border passenger flows and cargo trade.
He suggested that China and Russia stay close to the people's needs, strengthen mutual support between regions, develop industries with distinctive local features, and ensure that the two peoples gain more tangible benefits from development and revitalization.
He called on both sides to promptly address the concerns of businesses, maintain policy continuity and stability, and create favorable conditions for businesses to grow.
He encouraged the two sides to deepen exchanges and cooperation in such areas as culture, tourism, education and youth, and ensure the success of various activities under the China-Russia Years of Education.
He said China and Russia should safeguard regional peace and stability, jointly uphold the purposes and principles of the UN Charter and international fairness and justice, and deter any attempts to challenge the outcomes of the victory of World War II and the post-war international order.
China has the confidence, capability and conditions to maintain steady and healthy economic development, Ding said, adding that China remains committed to expanding high-standard opening up and welcomes foreign businesses to continue investing and deepening their presence in China.