TITLE:
Chinese premier urges all-out rescue, emergency response efforts after Gyirong mudslide

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-28

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202608/28/content_WS6a91475dc6d00ca5f9a0cd64.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
GYIRONG, Xizang, Aug. 28 -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang has called for all-out rescue and emergency response efforts following a mudslide that struck the Gyirong border port in Gyirong County of southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region.
Entrusted by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, Li, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, traveled to Gyirong County on Thursday to guide rescue and emergency response efforts after the disaster.
Five people have been confirmed dead and 558 others are missing after the mudslide hit the border port on Wednesday morning, according to regional authorities.
Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made instructions on disaster relief and emergency response operations after the mudslide occurred on Wednesday.
Li stressed the importance of implementing the instructions, calling for efforts to put the people and their lives above all else and to spare no effort in carrying out rescue and emergency response work.
After arriving at the Xigaze airport, Li proceeded directly to the disaster-hit area in Gyirong, where he inspected the damage and met with rescue workers.
Li said rescue plans should be formulated in a scientific manner and every possible effort be made to search for those who are still missing. As long as there is a glimmer of hope, every effort should be made, he said.
He also called for swift repairs to damaged infrastructure, including roads, communications and power facilities, to restore access for rescue operations as soon as possible.
Expressing appreciation to personnel working on the front lines of the rescue effort, Li later visited temporary shelters for affected residents and conveyed Xi's concern and care to them.
Li stressed the need to continue dispatching and transporting disaster-relief supplies and ensure the basic living needs of evacuated and relocated residents.
At the front-line command center for the Gyirong mudslide disaster response, Li called for strengthening coordination of rescue personnel and equipment, enhancing unified on-site command, and further efforts to fully ascertain the situation of those still missing.
He stressed the need to carry out rescue operations in an orderly and effective manner.
It is necessary to strengthen monitoring, forecasting and early warning of weather, hydrological and geological conditions in affected and surrounding areas, as well as take solid epidemic prevention and disinfection measures to guard against secondary disasters, he noted.
He urged authorities to release information on the disaster and rescue operations in an open and transparent manner.
Li also stressed the need to strengthen foreign-related emergency response, communication and coordination, and work with relevant foreign parties to verify the status of missing persons and well handle follow-up matters.
Noting that China is still in the midst of flood season and faces a severe and complex situation regarding flood control and typhoon prevention, Li called for maintaining preparedness for extreme and worst-case scenarios.
He urged authorities to remain highly vigilant, intensify inspections and risk-removal efforts in key areas and vulnerable locations, and take solid measures against various natural disasters to safeguard people's lives and property and maintain overall social stability.