TITLE:
Chinese premier stresses efforts to secure bumper autumn grain harvest

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-27

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202608/27/content_WS6a8f8328c6d00ca5f9a0cce7.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CHANGCHUN, Aug. 26 -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang has called for multiple measures to stabilize and boost grain production and all-out efforts to secure a bumper autumn grain harvest.
Li, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks during an investigation and research tour to northeast China's Heilongjiang and Jilin provinces from Monday to Wednesday.
He also called for continued efforts to enhance the country's comprehensive agricultural production capacity and ensure a stable and secure supply of grain and other important agricultural products.
During a visit to a farm in Heilongjiang, Li inspected the growth of soybeans, corn and rice. Noting that the crops are currently in a critical period for yield formation, he called for strengthened field management and efforts to ensure adequate supplies and stable prices of agricultural production materials.
At an agricultural science and technology park and a rice research institute, Li said that science and technology hold the key to increasing grain yields. He called for accelerating the application of artificial intelligence and the development of smart agriculture.
After inspecting the construction progress of a major water conservancy project, Li called for efforts to enhance agricultural disaster prevention and mitigation capacity to help ensure stable harvests despite droughts or floods.
During a visit to an agricultural cooperative in Jilin, Li called for improving the system of convenient and efficient agricultural services and promoting better integration of smallholder farmers with modern agricultural practices.
Li also inspected a corn oil production line and called for efforts to advance the deep processing of agricultural products, extend industrial chains, enhance value chains, and boost the capacity to create jobs.
During a visit to Chagan Lake, Li was briefed on ecological fishery development. He called for developing modern ecological aquaculture and promoting diversified businesses, including ecological tourism.