TITLE:
China to revise regulations on housing provident fund management

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202608/18/content_WS6a84262ec6d00ca5f9a0cab8.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 18 -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang has signed a State Council decree publicizing a decision to revise the Regulations on Management of Housing Provident Fund, which will take effect on Sept. 20, 2026.
According to the decision, the scope of the fund's withdrawal and use will be expanded. For those withdrawing from the housing provident fund to pay rent, the eligibility threshold requiring rent to exceed a prescribed proportion of a household's wage income will be removed.
Housing provident fund savings can be withdrawn for new purposes under the revised regulations, including renovating the homes the contributors live in and paying property management fees for such homes.
The decision also states that the channels for the investment and utilization of the housing provident fund will be appropriately broadened, specifying that housing provident fund management centers are allowed to use the funds to purchase policy-oriented financial bonds.
To enhance the efficiency of management services, the decision also underscores efforts to simplify the procedures for employees to apply for housing provident fund withdrawals and to shorten the review period for housing provident fund loan applications.
The decision, which strengthens risk prevention and control, stipulates that housing provident fund management centers should establish comprehensive, complete and accurate credit records and incorporate them into the national credit information sharing platform.
Amid efforts to expand the coverage of the system, the decision clarifies that individual business owners, part-time employees and other people in flexible employment can pay voluntary contributions into the housing provident fund and enjoy policy support in accordance with the regulations.