TITLE:
Xi holds phone talks with British PM

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-08

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202609/08/content_WS6a9ffca9c6d00ca5f9a0d110.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 8 -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday held phone talks with British Prime Minister Andy Burnham.
Congratulating Burnham on assuming office as British prime minister, Xi said that China and Britain are comprehensive strategic partners.
Despite differences in their social systems and national conditions, the two countries share more common interests than differences, Xi said, urging the two sides to respect and trust each other, transcend differences, seek common ground while reserving differences, and expand mutually beneficial cooperation.
Both governments are committed to developing their economies and improving people's well-being, and the two countries can complement each other's strengths and assist each other, Xi said.
During the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030), China will further expand opening up in such areas as education, healthcare and finance, all of which offer great potential for bilateral cooperation, Xi said.
Pointing out that China and Britain are both major countries in science and technology with rich resources in education, culture, sports and other fields, Xi called on the two sides to maintain an open and forward-looking mentality and strengthen exchanges and cooperation in various fields.
Xi expressed the hope that the British side will fully protect the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese investors.
Xi noted that China and Britain, as permanent members of the UN Security Council and major economies in the world, both support multilateralism and open trade, and uphold the central role of the United Nations.
The two sides should strengthen communication and coordination within frameworks such as the United Nations, the Group of 20 and the World Trade Organization, and promote an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, Xi said.