TITLE:
Xi stresses consolidating, expanding campaign on correct view of governance performance

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202608/24/content_WS6a8c2995c6d00ca5f9a0cc44.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Aug. 24 -- Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, has emphasized the importance of consolidating and expanding the progress made in a Party-wide study and education campaign for establishing and practicing a correct understanding of governance performance.
Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks in a recent instruction, which was studied at a meeting of the CPC Central Leading Group for Party Building held on Monday.
Xi stressed that establishing and putting into practice a correct view of governance performance is a long-term task that requires sustained efforts.
Since the 18th CPC National Congress, the organization of study and education campaigns across the Party to address major and pressing issues in Party building has become an important institutional arrangement, Xi said, lauding the notable results achieved in the latest campaign.
Xi emphasized the need to regularly conduct education on the correct view of governance performance, guiding Party members and officials to always take responsibility, perform their duties and fulfill their obligations in accordance with such a view.
Efforts should also be made to improve differentiated assessment and evaluation systems, and establish a personnel selection and appointment orientation that values solid work and concrete results, Xi said.
During the meeting, participants thoroughly studied and implemented Xi's instruction, reviewed the campaign, and made arrangements for consolidating and expanding the campaign's outcomes and establishing a long-term mechanism accordingly.
The meeting was chaired by Cai Qi, who is head of the CPC Central Leading Group for Party Building, and was also attended by Li Xi, the group's deputy head. Cai and Li, both of whom are members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, also delivered speeches.
The meeting noted that the campaign has resolved prominent issues related to deviations in view of governance performance, regulated the official conduct of leading officials at all levels, and given a strong boost to all work aimed at ensuring a good start to the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030).
The campaign, which started in late February, has basically concluded and aimed to correct misguided views on governance that often breed vanity projects, hidden risks, heavy burdens on local communities, and public discontent.