TITLE:
Xi, Brunei's Sultan exchange congratulations on 35th anniversary of ties

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
PRC Government English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://english.www.gov.cn/news/202609/30/content_WS6abcb0ebc6d00ca5f9a0d897.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BEIJING, Sept. 30 -- Chinese President Xi Jinping and Sultan of Brunei Haji Hassanal Bolkiah Mu'izzaddin Waddaulah on Wednesday exchanged congratulations on the 35th anniversary of diplomatic relations between the two countries.
Xi noted that the traditional friendship between China and Brunei has a long history and remained strong over time.
In the process of working together towards modernization, the two countries have set an example of mutual respect, equality and common development between large and small countries, Xi added.
Over the 35 years since the establishment of diplomatic ties, China and Brunei have steadily deepened political mutual trust, achieved fruitful results in cooperation across various fields, and strengthened people-to-people exchanges, he said.
Xi said that last year, Hassanal paid a state visit to China, during which the two sides reached important consensus on building a China-Brunei community with a shared future, ushering bilateral relations into a new stage of historical development.
Xi emphasized that he attaches great importance to the development of China-Brunei relations and is willing to work with Hassanal to take the 35th anniversary of diplomatic ties as an opportunity to carry forward traditional friendship, enhance the alignment of development strategies, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, and advance the building of the China-Brunei community with a shared future in a more substantive and in-depth manner, so as to better benefit the two peoples and contribute more to regional prosperity and stability.
Hassanal stated that over the past 35 years since establishing diplomatic relations, Brunei and China have consistently trusted, respected, and understood each other.
In 2025, the two countries reached an important consensus on building a community with a shared future, he added.
He looks forward to taking the 35th anniversary of Brunei-China diplomatic relations as an opportunity to further strengthen bilateral ties, deepen cooperation and exchanges in areas such as economy, trade, investment, defense, and culture, and jointly achieve prosperity and progress for both countries, thereby better benefiting their peoples.