TITLE:
Chinese mainland welcomes public suggestions on "two systems" solution to Taiwan question: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260930_12815968.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese mainland welcomes public suggestions on "two systems" solution to Taiwan question: spokesperson
        Source: XinhuaUpdated: 2026-09-30
		
    
BEIJING, Sept. 30 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese mainland spokesperson on Wednesday welcomed people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait to offer opinions and suggestions on the solution to the Taiwan question under the "one country, two systems" framework.
Zhang Han, spokesperson for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, made the remarks at a media conference in response to a question about recent discussions on the "two systems" solution to the Taiwan question.
Zhang said that peaceful reunification and "one country, two systems" remain the basic policy for resolving the Taiwan question and the best way to achieve national reunification, serving the interests of compatriots on both sides of the Taiwan Strait and the Chinese nation as a whole.
"The reunification of the motherland is an unstoppable historical trend," she noted.
The Taiwan question stems from China's civil war fought between the forces led by the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese Kuomintang (KMT) about eight decades ago. In 1949, the defeated KMT retreated to Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China was founded under the leadership of the CPC.
The unresolved civil war, combined with foreign interference, has kept the two sides of the Taiwan Strait in a prolonged state of political confrontation. However, the fact that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory has never changed.
Zhang said that an increasing number of people in Taiwan have begun discussing the specific content of the solution.
They are also envisioning prospects for a better future following reunification and considering the major opportunities reunification would bring to Taiwan's social and economic development, as well as the tangible benefits it would bring to the people of Taiwan, she added.
"We welcome compatriots on both sides of the Taiwan Strait to pool their wisdom and contribute more opinions and suggestions on the solution," Zhang said.
She called on people on both sides to work together to create the historic achievement of national reunification and share in the great glory of national rejuvenation. 
Related Stories