TITLE:
Cross-Strait Red Cross Youth Summer Camp Kicks Off in Guiyang

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-20

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202608/t20260820_12783366.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Cross-Strait Red Cross Youth Summer Camp Kicks Off in Guiyang
        Source: Taiwan.cnUpdated: 2026-08-20
		
    
  　　Aug 20(Taiwan.cn)—Recently, the opening ceremony of the 2026 Cross-Strait Red Cross Youth Humanitarian Tour Summer Camp was held at Tuyunguan in Guiyang. Integrating three core components — cultural study tours, field visits, and public-welfare practices — the summer camp provides a high-quality platform for in-depth, face-to-face exchanges between young students from Taiwan and their counterparts in Guizhou.
　　During the camp, young participants from both sides of the Taiwan Strait toured Guizhou to see the remarkable achievements of Guizhou in new-era economic and social development, ecological progress, ethnic cultural heritage, and rural revitalization. They also gained first-hand knowledge of the Red Cross operational systems covering first aid, humanitarian assistance, public welfare and charitable activities, as well as youth volunteer services, thereby gaining a more comprehensive understanding of the Red Cross cause and public-welfare system on the Chinese mainland. Through discussions on public welfare initiatives, mutual learning, and experience sharing, young people from Guizhou and Taiwan forged profound friendships. The event fostered cultural identity among cross-Strait youth rooted in shared origins and devotion to the motherland, strengthened consensus on development in humanitarian and public-welfare fields, and encouraged more young people in Taiwan to learn about and visit Guizhou. It will further promote deeper and more substantive people-to-people exchanges and integration between Guizhou and Taiwan.
The one-week summer camp brought participants to Guiyang, Anshun, Qiannan and Qianxinan Buyi and Miao Autonomous Prefectures. They visited Red Cross first-aid stations, studied Wang Yangming’s School of Mind, and experienced the enduring charm of fine traditional Chinese culture. Tours across Guizhou also enabled them to view landmark projects including the “Museum of World Bridges” and China’s Five-hundred-meter Aperture Spherical Telescope (FAST), and gain direct insights into Guizhou’s latest progress in economic, social, and scientific and technological innovation. (Jointly reported by Taiwan.cn and the Taiwan Affairs Office of Guizhou)
Related Stories