TITLE:
DPP slammed for move to curb cross-Strait ties

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-10

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260910_12787387.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
DPP slammed for move to curb cross-Strait ties
A Chinese mainland spokesman denounced the Democratic Progressive Party authorities in Taiwan on Wednesday for using various measures to obstruct cross-Strait exchanges, stressing that national reunification remains an inevitable historical trend.
Chen Binhua, a spokesman for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, made the remarks at a regular news conference in response to the DPP authorities' recent measures targeting cross-Strait exchanges.
Local tourism authorities in Taiwan have asked travel agencies to collect the personal information of tourists traveling to the mainland, raising privacy concerns on the island.
Chen denounced the move as "a despicable tactic" by the DPP authorities to threaten and intimidate Taiwan people from visiting the mainland and to interfere with cross-Strait personnel exchanges.
"The aspiration of people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait to draw closer together, along with the momentum of cross-Strait exchanges and cooperation, is unstoppable," Chen said.
Meanwhile, DPP supporters have recently shown heightened sensitivity to expressions associated with the mainland and simplified Chinese characters. In one case, a man was accused of being a mainland spy after he was seen watching a video containing simplified Chinese characters at a train station. A subsequent police investigation found that he was simply watching a financial management course.
"From treating Taiwan people's use of mainland expressions as a major threat to viewing the use of certain simplified Chinese characters as evidence of espionage infiltration, the DPP authorities are becoming increasingly paranoid," Chen said.
He added that the DPP's anti-mainland approach has undermined mutual trust across the Taiwan Strait and would further fuel a climate of "green terror" in Taiwan society.
Despite the DPP authorities' obstruction, cross-Strait economic ties have continued to grow. Trade between Taiwan and the mainland reached $221.8 billion from January to July, up 26.5 percent year-on-year, Chen said.
Mainland exports to Taiwan totaled $62.17 billion, up 31.6 percent, while imports from Taiwan to the mainland reached $159.63 billion, up 24.7 percent.
Chen also addressed recent discussions among Taiwan people about the implementation of the "one country, two systems" principle in Taiwan.
Li Ci-ze, an associate professor at Changhua University of Education in Taiwan, recently published a series of articles on social media discussing the implementation of "one country, two systems" in Taiwan, which have triggered heated debate across the Strait.
"We are pleased to see more and more Taiwan compatriots recognize the inevitability of reunification and begin to understand and discuss the specific implementation of 'one country, two systems' under Taiwan's circumstances," Chen said.
He stressed that peaceful reunification and "one country, two systems" are the best way to realize national reunification. He said the implementation of this solution in Taiwan would take the island's actual situation and the interests of the Taiwan people into full account, while also incorporating suggestions from various sectors across the Taiwan Strait.
"National reunification is an unstoppable historical trend. For our compatriots in Taiwan, it is not an optional question, it is one which must be answered," he said.