TITLE:
Mainland welcomes growing discussion in Taiwan on "one country, two systems": spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-10

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260910_12787333.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Mainland welcomes growing discussion in Taiwan on "one country, two systems": spokesperson
BEIJING, Sept. 9 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese mainland welcomed growing discussion in Taiwan about national reunification and a proposed "one country, two systems" framework for the island, a spokesperson said Wednesday.
Chen Binhua, spokesperson for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, was responding to a question about a Taiwan scholar who had published three consecutive articles on social media discussing the proposed framework.
"It is normal to have different opinions and debates between people on the mainland and Taiwan in the process," Chen said.
"We believe more of our compatriots in Taiwan will break free from the ideological constraints and 'information cocoons' created by the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) authorities, and increasingly recognize the advantages of the 'one country, two systems' and the inclusiveness of the Taiwan solution it offers," he said.
The Taiwan question is left by a full-blown civil war fought between the forces led by the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese Kuomintang (KMT) about eight decades ago. In 1949, the remnants of the defeated KMT retreated to Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China (PRC) was founded under the leadership of the CPC.
The unresolved civil war and foreign interference have left the two sides of the Taiwan Strait in a prolonged state of political confrontation, though the fact that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory has never changed.
Peaceful reunification under "one country, two systems" is the best approach to achieving national reunification, Chen said.
"The specific form of implementation of 'one country, two systems' in Taiwan will fully take into consideration the realities in Taiwan, fully absorb the opinions and suggestions of people from all sectors on both sides of the Strait, and fully safeguard the interests and sentiments of Taiwan compatriots," he said.
While discussions about reunification grow in Taiwan society, the DPP authorities continue to challenge the one-China principle. Taiwan leader Lai Ching-te has recently again argued that United Nations General Assembly Resolution 2758 was not related to Taiwan.
Chen said such attempts would only bring humiliation upon Lai and the DPP authorities and were bound to fail.
No matter what they do, Chen said, they cannot alter the legal and factual reality that Taiwan is part of China, undermine the international community's adherence to the one-China principle, or halt the historical trend toward national reunification.
The U.N. General Assembly adopted Resolution 2758 in 1971 by an overwhelming majority, clarifying that the PRC government is the sole legal government representing the whole of China. This resolution, from the perspective of international law, completely eliminated possibilities of "two Chinas" or "Taiwan independence."