TITLE:
Mainland criticizes Taiwan's DPP for donating vessel to Philippines

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-23

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260923_12814578.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Mainland criticizes Taiwan's DPP for donating vessel to Philippines
A Chinese mainland spokeswoman on Wednesday criticized the Democratic Progressive Party authorities in Taiwan for donating a decommissioned "coast guard" vessel to the Philippines for use as a law enforcement vessel, accusing them of abandoning the national position.
Stressing that Taiwan is part of China, Zhu Fenglian, a spokeswoman for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, said that the two sides across the Taiwan Strait should jointly safeguard the country's territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, as well as the overall and fundamental interests of the Chinese nation.
According to reports, a decommissioned 500-ton patrol vessel of Taiwan's "coast guard" was found to have been transferred to the Philippines for use as a law enforcement vessel. Zhu noted that the DPP authorities have turned a blind eye to the launch of talks between Japan and the Philippines on the delimitation of maritime boundaries in waters east of Taiwan.
"Rather than doing their utmost to protect the interests of people on the island, they have instead assisted such actions, increasing the risk of harm to the rights and interests of Taiwan's fishermen and abandoning their national position, which is deeply regrettable," she said.
Meanwhile, Lin Chia-lung, head of the island's external affairs department, recently announced that Taiwan is preparing to open a representative office in Cebu, the Philippines. The move has also sparked controversy on the island, as it came amid the so-called delimitation talks between Japan and the Philippines.
In response, Zhu said the DPP authorities' stubborn pursuit of "Taiwan independence" by relying on external forces cannot change the fact that Taiwan is part of China, nor can it shake the broad consensus and fundamental framework of the international community upholding the one-China principle. "Such efforts will only end in failure," she added.
She also urged the Philippines to adhere to the one-China principle and stop sending wrong signals to separatist forces seeking "Taiwan independence".