TITLE:
Mainland denounces Taiwan authorities' move to increase defense spending

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-02

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260902_12785925.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Mainland denounces Taiwan authorities' move to increase defense spending
        Source: XinhuaUpdated: 2026-09-02
		
    
  BEIJING, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- A Chinese mainland spokesperson on Wednesday criticized the decision of Taiwan authorities led by Lai Ching-te to raise the island's defense budget in 2027, saying it would only bring grave disaster to the people in Taiwan.
Zhang Han, spokesperson for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, made the remarks in response to a question about the island's defense budget of more than 1 trillion New Taiwan dollars (about 31 billion U.S. dollars) for 2027, which Taiwan authorities led by Lai Ching-te said was aimed at strengthening its defense capabilities and demonstrating its resolve to defend itself.
Zhang said Taiwan authorities led by Lai Ching-te have stubbornly adhered to their separatist stance of seeking "Taiwan independence," disregarding the mainstream public opinion on the island that calls for "peace, development, cross-Strait exchanges and cooperation."
They have instead stoked confrontation across the Taiwan Strait and squandered public funds in pursuit of their independence agenda, Zhang said, adding that such efforts are "simply beyond their capabilities" and will only have serious consequences for the people of Taiwan.
"We are unwavering in our resolve and formidable in our ability to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity, and will never leave any room for separatist activities seeking 'Taiwan independence' in any form," Zhang noted.
She called on people in Taiwan to recognize the dangers of "Taiwan independence" separatism, firmly oppose such activities, and safeguard the common home of the Chinese nation.
Taiwan's executive authorities approved the island's 2027 general budget on Aug. 20, with defense spending rising sharply to over 1 trillion New Taiwan dollars for the first time.
The defense budget accounts for roughly 29 percent of total government expenditure, meaning that about 29 out of every 100 New Taiwan dollars in government spending would go toward defense. 
Related Stories