TITLE:
Roundup: Chinese mainland welcomes more discussion from Taiwan on reunification

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-24

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260924_12814678.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Roundup: Chinese mainland welcomes more discussion from Taiwan on reunification
BEIJING, Sept. 23 (Xinhua) -- The Chinese mainland welcomes more discussion in Taiwan on national reunification and is willing to conduct broad and in-depth democratic consultations with people from various sectors on the island on relations across the Taiwan Strait and the future of the Chinese nation, a mainland spokesperson said on Wednesday.
Zhu Fenglian, spokesperson for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, made the remarks at a regular press conference when commenting on a recent article by a Taiwan scholar suggesting that the mainland should explore ways to end hostility and build mutual trust across the Taiwan Strait before reunification.
The Taiwan question stems from China's civil war fought between the forces led by the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese Kuomintang (KMT) about eight decades ago. In 1949, the defeated KMT retreated to Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China (PRC) was founded under the leadership of the CPC.
The unresolved civil war, combined with foreign interference, has kept the two sides of the Taiwan Strait in a prolonged state of political confrontation. However, the fact that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory has never changed.
Zhu said that peaceful reunification and "one country, two systems" remain the basic policy for resolving the Taiwan question and the best way to achieve national reunification.
She said the Taiwan plan under a proposed "one country, two systems" framework would fully take into account Taiwan's realities, absorb opinions and suggestions from people on both sides of the Strait, and consider the interests and feelings of Taiwan compatriots.
"On the common political basis of adhering to the 1992 Consensus and opposing 'Taiwan independence,' we are willing to carry out broad and in-depth democratic consultations with political parties, groups and people from all sectors in Taiwan on cross-Strait relations and the future of the Chinese nation," Zhu said.
She added that the mainland welcomes suggestions from Taiwan compatriots on advancing national reunification, saying that earlier and broader discussions on reunification could create more opportunities for Taiwan's economic and social development and bring more tangible benefits to Taiwan compatriots.
Her remarks came as a recent annual survey on cross-Strait relations in Taiwan showed that more than 60 percent of respondents supported continuing cross-Strait exchange platforms, expanding tourist exchanges and increasing exchanges in areas such as film, arts and sports.
Zhu said the findings demonstrated that peace, development, exchanges and cooperation remain the mainstream public opinion in Taiwan and a broad consensus among different sectors in Taiwan.
She said the mainland will continue to uphold the principle that people on both sides of the Strait are one family, roll out more policies and measures benefiting Taiwan compatriots, strengthen institutional support for cross-Strait integrated development, and promote personnel exchanges and cooperation in various fields.
Separately, Zhu said the mainland would continue to promote cross-Strait economic exchanges and cooperation so that people on both sides of the Strait can share the benefits of peaceful and integrated development of cross-Strait relations.
She noted that relevant parties on both sides have been working to implement 10 policy measures announced by the mainland in April to promote cross-Strait exchanges and cooperation, helping more Taiwan farmers and fishermen expand into the mainland market.
According to Zhu, multiple Taiwan packaging plants, orchards and food enterprises have been registered on the mainland, while customs clearance efficiency has improved and logistics have become more convenient.
On transportation links, Zhu said direct cross-Strait passenger air services have yet to fully return to normal due to obstruction and interference by the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) authorities.
From January to August this year, 4.22 million passenger trips were made on direct cross-Strait flights, up 12.9 percent year on year, reflecting strong market demand and a strong desire for exchanges among people on both sides of the Strait, Zhu said.
She called on the Taiwan side to remove unreasonable restrictions on cross-Strait air transportation and allow airlines on both sides to arrange flights based on market demand.
Commenting on the annual Shanghai-Taipei City Forum, Zhu described it as an important platform for city-to-city exchanges across the Strait and said both cities had remained in communication over arrangements for this year's event.
The forum, which has been held for 16 consecutive years, has developed well-established practices and is expected to proceed as scheduled this year, she said.
In response to recent remarks by Taiwan leader Lai Ching-te on increasing Taiwan's "defense spending" to "safeguard peace through strength," Zhu reiterated the mainland's position that there is only one China in the world and Taiwan is part of China.
She said the DPP authorities' stubborn pursuit of "Taiwan independence," deliberate escalation of confrontation across the Taiwan Strait, and attempts to seek "Taiwan independence" through military means and external support make them the chief culprit in undermining peace and stability across the Taiwan Strait.
No matter how much is spent on military budgets or weapons purchases, Zhu said, it cannot change the historical trend toward national reunification.