TITLE:
Scholars: Natl identity key to bolstering ties

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202608/t20260824_12783919.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Scholars: Natl identity key to bolstering ties
Scholars from Taiwan and the mainland stressed at a seminar that a sound sense of Chinese national identity is fundamental to the development of cross-Strait relations, while expressing concern about the Democratic Progressive Party authorities' efforts to distort that identity by promoting "Taiwan independence" separatism.
Addressing the 2026 Cross-Strait Relations Seminar, which opened on Thursday in Wuhan, Hubei province, Peng Qing'en, deputy director of the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, called on Taiwan compatriots to uphold the greater national interest and recognize the broader historical trend. He also urged them to jointly oppose "Taiwan independence" separatism and external interference and safeguard the common homeland of the Chinese nation.
The two-day seminar was organized by the mainland-based cross-Strait relations research center and brought together more than 160 scholars and experts from both sides of the Taiwan Strait.
Wang Yingjin, director of the Research Center for Cross-Strait Relations at Renmin University of China, said a sound sense of national identity is the first step in advancing cross-Strait relations and an important prerequisite for fostering emotional affinity between people on both sides.
Yang Yizu, vice-president of the All-China Federation of Taiwan Compatriots, said that, since Taiwan is part of China's territory, people in Taiwan originally had no issue with their identification with China.
He said separatist forces on the island have sought to construct a "Taiwan independence" identity through policies, which he described as false identification. "Identification with national reunification is natural, while identification with 'Taiwan independence' is artificial," Yang said.
Chi Hsing, president and publisher of The Observer, a Taiwan-based magazine, said "different systems are not an excuse for secession". She said people on both sides of the Taiwan Strait form a community with a shared future and that Taiwan compatriots should uphold the tradition of patriotism reflected in their shared historical memory.
"The status quo across the Taiwan Strait is a transitional phase towards national reunification," Chi said.
Referring to the island's "constitution", whose preamble states that it is intended to "meet the needs before national reunification", she said Taiwan has only the option of pursuing reunification, not "Taiwan independence".
Experts at the seminar noted that the mainland's continuous development and progress has contributed to a growing sense of identification with China among people on the island. They also called on people in Taiwan to gain a better understanding of the mainland.
Ting Jen-fang, president of the south Taiwan cross-Strait relations association, said new forms of traditional Chinese culture have strong appeal among young people in Taiwan. He cited popular works such as the dance drama A Tapestry of a Legendary Landand the television series Pursuit of Jadeas examples, saying they are opening up new avenues for cross-Strait cultural exchange.
Yang Kai-huang, director of the Cross-Strait Research Center at Ming Chuan University in Taiwan, encouraged people in Taiwan to experience the mainland's technological development, including the application of smart technologies in daily life and healthcare. Such developments, he said, offer a glimpse into future models and could also help strengthen a sense of identification.