TITLE:
Taiwan's future must be decided by all Chinese people: spokesperson

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-18

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260918_12788986.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Taiwan's future must be decided by all Chinese people: spokesperson
BEIJING, Sept. 16 (Xinhua) -- Taiwan's future can only be determined by the over 1.4 billion Chinese people, including Taiwan people, a mainland spokesperson said on Wednesday.
Zhu Fenglian, a spokesperson for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, made the remarks at a press conference in response to a media query about recent comments by a Taiwan official, who claimed that Taiwan's future must be decided by its 23 million people.
The Taiwan question is a scar left over by a full-blown civil war fought between the forces led by the Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese Kuomintang (KMT) party about eight decades ago. In 1949, the remnants of the defeated KMT retreated to Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China was founded under the leadership of the CPC.
The unresolved civil war and foreign interference have left the two sides of the Strait in prolonged political confrontation. However, the fact that Taiwan is an inalienable part of China's territory has never changed.
Noting that there is only one China in the world, Zhu stressed the irresistible trend of national reunification. "The future of Taiwan rests solely with the more than 1.4 billion Chinese people, including Taiwan compatriots," she added.
Taiwan's Democratic Progressive Party authorities have clung to their separatist stance of seeking "Taiwan independence," refused to recognize the 1992 Consensus that embodies the one-China principle, and worked to disrupt cross-Strait exchanges. These actions run counter to the mainstream will and are opposed by people from both sides of the Taiwan Strait, Zhu said.
The mainland, in contrast, has continuously promoted cross-Strait exchanges, cooperation and integrated development. "Our policies toward Taiwan remain clear and consistent. We will safeguard the interests and well-being of Taiwan compatriots, and work resolutely to advance national reunification," the spokesperson noted.