TITLE:
Taiwan's reunification with motherland inevitable, mainland spokesman says

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260909_12787275.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Taiwan's reunification with motherland inevitable, mainland spokesman says
A Chinese mainland spokesman said on Wednesday that reunification with the motherland is inevitable for Taiwan, not a matter of choice, noting that peaceful reunification under "one country, two systems" is the best way to achieve national reunification.
Chen Binhua, spokesman for the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, stated that national reunification is an unstoppable historical trend.
"For Taiwan compatriots, reunification is not an optional question, but a mandatory one," he said at a regular news conference.
Recently, Li Ci-ze, an associate professor from Changhua University of Education in Taiwan, published three articles on social media discussing the implementation of "one country, two systems" in Taiwan.
The articles sparked heated discussion among readers on both sides of the Taiwan Strait, with some describing it as "a rare breakthrough text".
In response, Chen said at the Wednesday news conference that peaceful reunification and "one country, two systems" are the best way to achieve national reunification.
He stressed that the framework's specific implementation in Taiwan would fully take into account the island's actual situation and incorporate suggestions from various sectors on both sides of the Taiwan Strait. The interests and sentiments of the people in Taiwan would also be fully taken into consideration, he said.
Chen said more and more Taiwan compatriots are recognizing the inevitability of national reunification and beginning to understand and discuss the specific implementation of "one country, two systems" under Taiwan's circumstances. Meanwhile, they are offering suggestions and ideas for the plan through various channels.
"We are pleased to see this," Chen said, adding that differences of opinion and debates are normal in the process.
"We believe that more Taiwan compatriots will break through the ideological constraints and information barriers imposed by the Democratic Progressive Party authorities and come to recognize the advantages of 'one country, two systems' and the inclusiveness of the Taiwan plan," Chen said.