TITLE:
The Taiwan Affairs Office of Tieling Visits Taiwan Compatriots Affected by Flood Disaster

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-18

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260918_12789104.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
The Taiwan Affairs Office of Tieling Visits Taiwan Compatriots Affected by Flood Disaster
        Source: Taiwan.cnUpdated: 2026-09-18
		
    
  　　Sep 18(Taiwan.cn)—On September 16, Li Jian, Member of the Standing Committee of the CPC Tieling Municipal Committee and Director of the United Front Work Department, led a team to visit Mr. Zhu and his wife, Taiwan compatriots residing in Tieling. The team held discussions with them to learn about their production and living conditions, conveying the care and warmth of the Party committee and government.
　　On July 13 this year, Tieling was hit by short-duration heavy rainfall, triggering floods in some areas. Mr. Zhu and his wife, who had returned for a family visit at that time, were trapped. Local authorities activated emergency responses immediately and carried out prompt rescue operations to fully safeguard the lives and property of the Taiwan compatriots. After the flood crisis, the Taiwan Affairs Office of Tieling continued to follow up on their situation, monitoring their health and daily life, and providing consistent follow-up services, allowing the Taiwan compatriots to truly feel the care of the local community. During this trip back to Tieling, Mr. Zhu and his wife came specifically to express gratitude for the timely rescue provided by the local government and fire rescue teams during the flood.
　　During the meeting, Li Jian inquired in detail about their post-disaster physical recovery and their itinerary for this visit to Tieling. He stated that compatriots across the Taiwan Strait share the same bloodline and are closely bonded as family. Offering assistance in times of crisis is the inescapable duty of local functional departments. Whenever Taiwan compatriots return to Tieling, the CPC Tieling Municipal Committee and Tieling Municipal Government will provide thoughtful and dedicated services, act as trusted friends for Taiwan compatriots, and earnestly implement various preferential policies benefiting Taiwan compatriots, so that they can live in Tieling with peace of mind.
　　Mr. Zhu and his wife said with emotion that the timely rescue amid the crisis made them deeply experience family-like warmth and witness the spirit of "compatriots on both sides of the Strait are one family." They found it hard to let go of the kindness and sincere concern in Tieling. They expressed their willingness to share their personal experiences in Tieling with relatives and friends in Taiwan, introduce the real economic and social development of Liaoning Province, encourage more Taiwan compatriots to visit Tieling, and help deepen cross-strait people-to-people exchanges.
Related Stories