TITLE:
The Taiwan Affairs Office of Guangxi Conducts Visits, Services and Policy Briefings in Yulin: Practical Policies and Heartwarming Services Boost Confidence among Taiwan Compatriots

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-18

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202609/t20260918_12789102.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
The Taiwan Affairs Office of Guangxi Conducts Visits, Services and Policy Briefings in Yulin: Practical Policies and Heartwarming Services Boost Confidence among Taiwan Compatriots
        Source: Taiwan.cnUpdated: 2026-09-18
		
    
  　　Sep 18(Taiwan.cn)—Recently, the Taiwan Affairs Office of Guangxi held a policy briefing in Yulin City to explain the Party's policies, laws and regulations concerning Taiwan, as well as preferential policies and measures benefiting Taiwan compatriots. Around 100 participants attended the event, including representatives of Taiwan-invested enterprises and Taiwan businesspeople residing in Yulin, mainland spouses of Taiwanese nationals, relatives of Taiwan compatriots, Taiwan teachers working in Yulin, and officials from relevant municipal departments.
　　The briefing addressed issues of greatest concern to Taiwan compatriots. Legal experts systematically reviewed laws and regulations related to Taiwan affairs and provided in-depth explanations supported by practical cases involving Guangxi's preferential policies for Taiwan compatriots. Officials from the Yulin Municipal Human Resources and Social Security Bureau elaborated on policies covering employment, entrepreneurship, talent introduction and social security support for Taiwan compatriots. Staff from the Yulin Municipal Tax Service explained preferential tax policies for Taiwan-invested enterprises item by item. The informative and pragmatic briefing was praised by participating Taiwan compatriots as "highly informative."
Following the briefing, Taiwan compatriot attendees visited the Guangxi headquarters of Want Want Group, the R&D headquarters of Fuchang Group and the Yulin Association of Taiwan-invested Enterprises. They gained first-hand insights into the operations and development of key Taiwan-invested enterprises by visiting their production sites. During exchanges, participants stated that they would remain confident in development, seize opportunities and continue to expand their investments in Yulin. (Jointly reported by Taiwan.cn and the Taiwan Affairs Office of Yulin Guangxi)
Related Stories