TITLE:
The Taiwan Affairs Office of Shangcheng County Organizes Intangible Cultural Heritage Experience Activity for Taiwan-Related Families

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-14

SOURCE:
Taiwan CN English

CATEGORY:
Taiwan

URL:
https://eng.taiwan.cn/cross_strait_exchanges/202608/t20260814_12782204.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Aug 14(Taiwan.cn)—On August 13, the Taiwan Affairs Office of Shangcheng County, Henan Province, organized local Taiwan-related families to take part in an experience activity of grass-beating printing, an intangible cultural heritage. Taking traditional intangible cultural heritage as a bridge, the event allowed family members of Taiwan compatriots to appreciate the beauty of folk craftsmanship up close. Through immersive hands-on practice, it fostered kinship and friendship and deepened cross-Strait cultural bonds
　　The activity site was immersed in a warm atmosphere. Inheritors of the intangible cultural heritage gave detailed lectures on the origin, cultural implications and inheritance value of grass-beating printing, and demonstrated the full operational procedures in a hands on manner.
　　During the experience, parents and children from Taiwan-related families worked side by side in close coordination, carefully completing every procedure. Participants experienced the ingenuity and charm of the traditional craft through hands-on practice. One after another, unique grass-rubbing prints with varied patterns were finished. Their simple and natural patterns embodied the charm of traditional culture and deep local affection.
　　This intangible cultural heritage experience has innovated forms of cross-Strait exchanges and enriched the cultural life of Taiwan-related families. Rooted in culture and hometown sentiment, the activity helped advance the influence of fine traditional Chinese culture. It subtly enhanced Taiwan-related families’ cultural identity and sense of belonging to the motherland, further promoted emotional rapport between compatriots across the Strait, and consolidated the emotional and cultural foundation for people-to-people exchanges and integration across the Taiwan Strait. (Jointly reported by Taiwan.cn, the Taiwan Affairs Office of Xinyang and the Taiwan Affairs Office of Shangcheng)