TITLE:
'We remain committed to China, continue to invest for the long term': Amway CEO

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-24

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0924/c90000-20503581.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
'We remain committed to China, continue to invest for the long term': Amway CEO
"Over the past 30 years in China, one lesson has stood out: lasting success is built on trust, mutual respect, and strong relationships."
President and CEO of Amway Michael Nelson recently gave an interview to People's Daily, prior to Chinese President Xi Jinping's state visit to the United States.
Nelson emphasized that when businesses prioritize value creation and meaningful connections, they foster deeper understanding, trust, and shared prosperity. Those are outcomes that benefit not only individual companies but also communities, countries, and the broader global economy as well, he noted.
Since entering China over three decades ago, Amway has witnessed the country's rapid economic ascent and the profound transformation of its consumer landscape.
"China has evolved from an important growth market into one of our most strategic markets," Nelson told People's Daily. He stressed that Amway's relationship with China has always been anchored in a long-term perspective, sustained investment, and a shared commitment to creating value.
"What gives me confidence is not just the scale of opportunity, but the foundation we've built over thirty years. We remain fully committed to China, and we will continue to invest for the long term," he said.
Nelson highlighted four guiding principles for Amway's journey in China: commitment, shared success, local innovation, and sustainable growth. The company first invested in China in 1992, breaking ground on a manufacturing facility in Guangzhou's development zone. That Guangzhou base has grown into Amway's largest production hub worldwide and the only facility capable of manufacturing its entire product portfolio. It supplies more than 50 global markets and accounts for 55 percent of Amway's total global output value.
To date, Amway has completed 10 rounds of capital investment in China, establishing a fully localized value chain that spans research and development, manufacturing, retail, consumer engagement, and after-sales services, laying a solid foundation for local development.
"These investments reflect our confidence in China's economic resilience and our enduring commitment to supporting the country's long-term health, growth, and innovation," Nelson noted.
"China's dynamic business environment and collaborative spirit have consistently created opportunities for mutual success," Nelson noted, adding that local innovation is a key reason the company has been able to grow and adapt over time.
"China's strong technological capabilities, entrepreneurial energy, and rapidly evolving consumer preferences continue to shape how we innovate, serve consumers, and evolve our business model. We view China not only as a major market, but as a vital innovation center that informs our global strategy," Nelson said.
Many of the ideas, insights, and capabilities developed here are helping shape the company's future and strengthen its ability to meet the changing needs of consumers, he added.
Earlier this year, Nelson attended the China Development Forum 2026, where he had in-depth communication with business representatives around the world on China's 15th Five-Year Plan, opening-up, as well as global cooperation.
He said one aspect of the 15th Five-Year Plan that is especially relevant to Amway is the continued focus on building a Healthy China. He sees strong alignment among relevant policies, the Chinese government's emphasis on innovation, the constantly upgrading consumption, and Amway's mission.
"That alignment gives us confidence to continue investing in China," Nelson said. According to him, Amway will grow its business by investing in healthcare, innovation, digital infrastructure, and supply chain optimization.
The company is continuing to invest in local talent, partnerships, and capabilities, so as to provide solid support for its development in China and share more opportunities with the country, Nelson said.
As a business leader, he places high value on strategic foresight -- a quality he finds reflected in China's long-term planning. "China's structured approach to development provides the stability companies need to confidently invest in the capabilities required to serve today's consumers and prepare for tomorrow's challenges," he said.
He said Amway China aims at long-term growth, and follows a clear vision for development and a stable framework that supports investment and innovation.
"We have always believed that meaningful success is built through consistency, patience, and a willingness to continue investing through change," he told People's Daily.
Projects such as the development of an Amway-owned farm in Pengzhou, southwest China's Sichuan province, represent a deeper commitment to organic farming practices, botanical excellence, and a vertical supply chain. They reflect the company's determination to continue building a foundation that can support sustainable growth for decades to come.
"Every trip to China reinforces what has impressed me for many years: the energy, optimism, and commitment people bring to building better lives for themselves, their families, and their communities," he said. These shared spirits of people foster deep connections that transcend national and cultural boundaries.
Nelson is optimistic about the development of China-U.S. relations, believing the two sides can accomplish big things when they work together.
"Looking ahead, my hope is that there continue to be opportunities for people of the two countries to learn from one another, build relationships, and work together toward common goals," he said.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.