TITLE:
BRICS to write a new chapter of strength through unity for the Global South

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-18

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0918/c90000-20501324.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
BRICS to write a new chapter of strength through unity for the Global South
From Sept. 12 to 13, Chinese President Xi Jinping attended the 18th BRICS Summit in New Delhi, India, where he delivered an important speech.
He reviewed the achievements of BRICS cooperation over the past 20 years, called on BRICS countries to strive to be pioneers in four areas, and put forward five initiatives for deepening BRICS cooperation, charting the course for the high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation.
The international community closely followed Xi's attendance at the summit and spoke highly of China's important role in rallying the strength of BRICS, advancing BRICS cooperation, and promoting the development and revitalization of the Global South.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of BRICS cooperation. Over the past two decades, the BRICS cooperation mechanism has continued to grow and expand, demonstrating strong vitality and becoming the most influential cooperation platform in today's world for emerging markets and developing countries.
Today, unilateralism and power politics are on the rise, while multilateralism and the international order face mounting challenges. Deficits in peace, development, security, and governance continue to widen.
Xi urged BRICS countries to stand firmly on the right side of history, strive to be a pioneer in advancing innovation-driven development, a pioneer in upholding peace and stability, a pioneer in facilitating mutual learning between civilizations, and a pioneer in reforming and improving global governance. He emphasized that BRICS countries should steer the international order in a direction that is more just and equitable, and work together to build a community with a shared future for humanity.
As the world undergoes profound changes unseen in a century at an accelerating pace, the collective rise of the Global South has emerged as a key force driving the development of a more multipolar world. To make the world more stable and prosperous, BRICS countries must seize the initiative of history, unite the broader Global South, play a positive, stabilizing, and constructive role in international affairs, and promote the common well-being of humanity.
At the Session II of the 18th BRICS Summit, Xi stressed that Global South countries should hold high the banner of multilateralism, uphold the authority and role of the United Nations, support multilateral institutions in advancing reform and increasing efficiency, and ensure the equal participation of all countries in international affairs. He further stated that they should see to it that the reform of the World Trade Organization proceeds in the right direction, uphold such principles as the most-favored-nation treatment, and actively explore new rules for the future.
He said, "We should support the operation and development of the New Development Bank to facilitate Global South cooperation. The international financial architecture must be reformed and improved to increase the representation and voice of developing countries."
Leaders attending the summit spoke highly of China's important contribution to the growth and development of the BRICS cooperation mechanism, saying that all sides should uphold the BRICS spirit, work to build a fairer and more inclusive international order, and create a secure and prosperous multipolar world.
For greater BRICS cooperation to make greater contributions and achieve greater development, a solid foundation for practical cooperation is essential. The question is how the greater BRICS cooperation can leverage its strengths in emerging markets and its links with the Global South to build incubators for innovation, upgrade traditional industries, develop emerging industries and foster industries of the future.
Xi proposed the open source and inclusive AI initiative, trade and investment facilitation initiative, digital industry cooperation initiative, intelligent manufacturing cooperation initiative and science and technology talent development initiative, charting the course for the high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation.
China will be a pioneer in establishing a BRICS AI open source community, support the cooperation in developing and applying large language models, hold specialized AI seminars and training courses, and build an open ecosystem for AI.
China proposes to establish a BRICS special economic zone partnership, under which countries can set up an intelligent portal, coordinate policies, and build a new frontier for open development.
China will push for establishing a BRICS digital ecosystem cloud platform, and conduct digital skills training, technological exchange and industrial alignment, so as to jointly enable the development of the digital economy.
China proposes to set up a BRICS engineer cultivation alliance for joint development of engineers and mutual recognition of competency standards.
These practical measures demonstrate China's firm commitment to advancing the development of greater BRICS cooperation in the spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation.
Twenty years of trials and tribulations have shown that solidarity and cooperation have always been the source of strength for the cause of BRICS. China will take over the BRICS presidency next year and host the 19th BRICS Summit. It stands ready to work with all parties to build consensus and create a brighter future, usher in the third "Golden Decade" of BRICS cooperation, open up new prospects for prosperity and progress, and join hands to write a new chapter of strength through unity for the Global South.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.