TITLE:
Chinese premier chairs State Council executive meeting

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-22

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0822/c90000-20491259.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese premier chairs State Council executive meeting
BEIJING, Aug. 21 (Xinhua) -- Chinese Premier Li Qiang on Friday chaired a State Council executive meeting that heard a report on the development of next-generation communication networks and made arrangements for further efforts to clear overdue payments owed to enterprises.
The meeting discussed measures to further improve air quality, adopted draft revisions to regulations on emergency response and investigation of power safety accidents, and approved draft regulations on market regulation offices at township level.
China will coordinate the development of terrestrial, space-based, international and integrated networks, while promoting wider use of next-generation smart devices and developing high-value applications in areas such as smart cities and intelligent manufacturing, the meeting said.
It also called for stronger protection of critical network infrastructure and data security, improved emergency communications, and better support for the use of land, electricity and spectrum resources.
The meeting urged stepped-up efforts to clear overdue payments to businesses and guide local authorities in making better use of policy tools such as special-purpose bonds and special relending facilities.
It also emphasized stronger enforcement against unfair competition and better regulation of non-cash payment instruments.
Efforts should continue to improve air quality, with stronger support from fiscal, financial and pricing policies, and promote greener production and lifestyles, the meeting said.
It called for stronger maintenance and safety checks of power equipment and facilities, tighter quality control throughout the design, construction and acceptance of new projects, and improved emergency response capabilities for power safety accidents.
The meeting also urged greater use of technology to improve market regulation and public services and safeguard a fair and orderly market environment.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.