TITLE:
China steps up satellite-based meteorological support for Nepal

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-06

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0906/c90000-20496535.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China steps up satellite-based meteorological support for Nepal
BEIJING, Sept. 5 (Xinhua) -- China is stepping up meteorological support for Nepal following last week's mudslide disaster, providing satellite data and meteorological services to assist cross-border disaster monitoring and emergency response, according to the China Meteorological Administration (CMA).
The administration has been providing Nepal with a range of meteorological products through MAZU, China's AI-powered meteorological early warning solution, including multi-source satellite data and products from the Fengyun-3 and Fengyun-4 meteorological satellite series.
On Aug. 26, a severe mudslide struck the Gyirong-Rasuwa border crossing between China and Nepal.
China's National Satellite Meteorological Center has continued to monitor precipitation and weather changes in the disaster-affected areas. China has also used high-resolution satellite data to track upstream ice-rock avalanche areas and river channels, supporting disaster assessment, rescue and meteorological services.
The CMA has connected Nepal-customized services to China's Fengyun meteorological satellites in real time. They enable real-time monitoring of convective weather and lightning activity, helping Nepal track precipitation conditions and severe convective weather over a wider area.
Since the disaster occurred, Chinese meteorological and water resources authorities have maintained close cooperation with their Nepali counterparts, sharing monitoring information and jointly responding to the disaster, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Guo Jiakun said on Thursday.
China will continue to strengthen cooperation with Nepal in relevant fields and provide strong support for Nepal's emergency rescue and response efforts, Guo added.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.