TITLE:
Chinese companies willing to prosper together with their global partners

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-23

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0923/c90000-20502884.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Chinese companies willing to prosper together with their global partners
Visitors walk past the logo of the 2026 World Manufacturing Convention (WMC) in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 20, 2026. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
HEFEI, Sept. 23 (Xinhua) -- At an exhibition area, a bright green SUV with a boxy shape and sturdy-looking lines attracts crowds of visitors. Inside the car, visitors marvel at the spacious interior and intelligent driving systems.
The vehicle, present at the ongoing World Manufacturing Convention in Hefei, capital of east China's Anhui Province, is the outcome of a collaboration between British automaker Jaguar Land Rover and China's Chery Automobile, with the two sides bringing together their respective strengths in vehicle design, manufacturing and intelligent technologies.
Decades ago, China's auto industry largely looked overseas for advanced vehicle models, technologies and production systems. Today, Chinese automakers are bringing their own strengths in electrification and intelligent vehicles into joint ventures and other partnerships, working with global partners to develop products for markets around the world.
This photo taken on Sept. 20, 2026 shows the opening ceremony of the 2026 World Manufacturing Convention (WMC) in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
"We want to build mutual advantage and look at ways in which our trade and investment can really help each other," said Peter Wilson, British ambassador to China. He said the two countries can do more research and development together, with their advanced technologies being highly complementary.
The goal, Wilson said, is to build "more of a genuine partnership" rather than simply having each side sell products to the other, adding that there is significant potential for further cooperation.
The United Kingdom is the guest country of honor in this year's convention. Along with Chinese companies, more than 40 foreign enterprises from the United States, France, Russia and other countries are exhibiting in the event.
"There are many possibilities for partnerships," said Jonathan Zeidler, personal assistant to the CEO of Kling PM GmbH, a German management company for energy, grid infrastructure and battery storage.
The company is already cooperating with Chinese partners, Zeidler said, adding that it is interesting to see Chinese companies invest in Germany, cooperate with local businesses and bring skilled employees to the country.
In the first quarter of 2026, Anhui, a manufacturing powerhouse in emerging sectors, registered 82 overseas investment projects filed by local companies, up 41.4 percent year on year and 3.2 times that of 2021, official data showed.
People visit the booth of BBCA Biochemical at the 2026 World Manufacturing Convention (WMC) in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 20, 2026. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Lin Jian recently said at a media conference that China stands ready to work with countries around the world to continue dialogue and cooperation in frontier fields such as artificial intelligence and embodied intelligence, turning Chinese innovation and manufacturing into a genuine driving force for common development.
Cooperation potential can be unlocked through technological connectivity, joint standard-setting and market sharing, and innovation dividends can be better delivered to humanity, he added.
Li Zhen, chairman of Hefei-based leading lithium battery maker Gotion High-tech Co., Ltd., said the company has established 10 industrial bases across Europe and Africa, the Asia-Pacific region and the Americas.
Visitors learn about all-solid-state batteries at the 2026 World Manufacturing Convention (WMC) in Hefei, east China's Anhui Province, Sept. 20, 2026. (Xinhua/Chang Nengjia)
"Gotion follows one principle in expanding its global footprint: to pursue localized development by establishing factories, R&D, jobs and supply chains in local markets and growing together with local partners," Li said.
Overseas business now accounts for about 30 percent of its total business, and the company plans to achieve a 1:1 ratio between overseas and domestic production capacity in the future.
"We have always believed that helping others succeed is the key to achieving our own success," Li said.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.