TITLE:
China to continue hydrological information sharing with Nepal to support disaster response

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0903/c90000-20495758.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China to continue hydrological information sharing with Nepal to support disaster response
BEIJING, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- China will continue to share information on barrier lake risks, glacial lake risks and emergency hydrological monitoring with Nepal to support disaster rescue and relief efforts, an official with the Ministry of Water Resources said Wednesday.
A fast-moving chain mudslide, triggered by a high-altitude glacier collapse in Nepal, struck Gyirong Port on the China-Nepal border in southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region on Aug. 26, causing severe damage to the port and destroying hydrological monitoring facilities.
As of Wednesday noon, 21 people had been confirmed dead and 541 others remained missing, according to the latest update from the Xizang regional government.
The disaster-hit area poses significant challenges for hydrological monitoring, as it is surrounded by high mountains, deep valleys and numerous glaciers and glacial lakes, the ministry said.
China's emergency hydrological monitoring team is working to restore the damaged monitoring stations, establish an early warning system, and closely monitor key risk areas. It is also continuing to share hydrological monitoring information with Nepal.
The ministry is now providing Nepal with daily updates on the development of a barrier lake above the Gyirong Port, cascading risks associated with the Cuojian River impact crater in Nepal, glacial lake risks in the Gyirong Zangbo River basin, the development and risk forecasts of new barrier lakes, and emergency hydrological monitoring.
The geological conditions in the Gyirong disaster-hit area remain highly unstable, with risks of further landslides, rockfalls and other secondary hazards, the ministry warned. The large number of glacial lakes in the surrounding area is also adding to the uncertainty.
The timely information provided by the ministry offers Nepal much-needed technical support, helping its authorities carry out rescue and emergency response efforts, evacuate residents in a timely manner and reduce casualties, the ministry said.
Looking ahead, China will work with Nepal to promote the signing of an agreement on hydrological information sharing for transboundary rivers and establish a regular cooperation mechanism, with the aim of jointly strengthening disaster prevention and mitigation, it added.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.