TITLE:
China ready to advance all-round energy cooperation with Russia: vice premier

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-05

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0905/c312369-20496514.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China ready to advance all-round energy cooperation with Russia: vice premier
VLADIVOSTOK, Sept. 4 (Xinhua) -- China is ready to work with Russia to advance all-round energy cooperation and maintain the long-term sustainable development of oil and gas trade, Chinese Vice Premier Ding Xuexiang said on Friday.
Ding, also a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks when co-chairing the 23rd meeting of the China-Russia Energy Cooperation Committee with Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak in Russia's Far Eastern city of Vladivostok.
China will work with Russia to implement the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, give full play to the role of the China-Russia Energy Cooperation Committee mechanism, and promote China-Russia all-round energy cooperation to a higher level, Ding said.
Ding called on both sides to continue to consolidate the achievements of existing energy cooperation, actively and properly address various concerns of enterprises, maintain the long-term sustainable development of oil and gas trade, and facilitate the orderly construction and stable operation of energy projects.
He suggested that both countries actively explore new areas and new directions for energy cooperation, tap cooperation potential in cutting-edge fields, explore the mutual empowerment of artificial intelligence and energy, and continuously expand the breadth and depth of energy cooperation.
He said China and Russia should jointly promote the reform of the global energy governance system, and make greater contributions to safeguarding the energy security and sustainable development of the two countries and the world at large.
For his part, Novak said that under the strategic guidance of the two heads of state, the Russia-China energy cooperation has continuously achieved new results, playing an important role in promoting the rapid growth of bilateral trade and maintaining the stability of the two countries' energy supply chains.
Russia is willing to work with China to optimize existing cooperation projects, expand and plan new areas of cooperation, and make new contributions to deepening China-Russia practical cooperation, Novak said.
During the meeting, both sides took stock of cooperation in oil, natural gas, coal, electricity, renewable energy and nuclear energy, exchanged views on future cooperation, and reached broad consensus.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.