TITLE:
China's green development momentum keeps growing: ministry

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-28

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0928/c90000-20504011.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China's green development momentum keeps growing: ministry
BEIJING, Sept. 27 (Xinhua) -- China's green development momentum is growing steadily amid the country's accelerated transformation, Minister of Ecology and Environment Huang Runqiu said here on Sunday.
He made the remarks at the opening ceremony of the 2026 annual general meeting of the China Council for International Cooperation on Environment and Development (CCICED).
As a new round of technological revolution and industrial transformation is accelerating and making breakthroughs, digital and intelligent technologies are deeply integrated with green development, creating new opportunities for addressing global challenges, he said.
The international community has voiced louder calls and stronger aspirations for solidarity, cooperation and green development, Huang noted.
China unswervingly follows the path of prioritizing ecological conservation and green development, advances carbon reduction, pollution reduction, green expansion and economic growth in a coordinated way, and continuously reinforces the green foundation of high-quality development, he said.
China promotes global green and environmental cooperation through its own actions and has always been a steadfast doer and important contributor to global green development, he said.
To date, China has built the world's largest clean electricity generation system and steel production system. Renewable energy installed capacity accounts for more than 60 percent of the country's total installed capacity, and nearly four in every 10 kilowatt-hours of electricity consumed by the whole society are green power.
In 2025, China's production and sales of new energy vehicles both exceeded 16 million units, ranking first in the world for the 11th consecutive year. Green and low-carbon industries have become a new engine of economic growth. In the first half of this year, coal-fired power generation accounted for less than 50 percent of total electricity generation for the first time.
Founded in 1992, the CCICED is a high-level policy advisory body and two-way exchange platform in the field of environment and development. This year's annual general meeting is themed "Pragmatic and Innovative Cooperation, Advancing Together for Green Development."
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.