TITLE:
China says reported European "301" tool typical act of protectionism, unilateralism

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0930/c90000-20504913.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China says reported European "301" tool typical act of protectionism, unilateralism
BEIJING, Sept. 29 (Xinhua) -- China on Tuesday said a reported tool being pushed by some European Union (EU) member states is a typical example of protectionism and unilateralism that would disrupt China-EU trade as well as the stability of global industrial and supply chains.
A spokesperson for China's Ministry of Commerce made the remarks in response to a media inquiry regarding reports that some EU member states are preparing a joint document calling on the European Commission to accelerate the development of a so-called European "301" tool and take tougher measures against China.
The tool referenced in the reports would not resolve any issues and could even backfire, the spokesperson said, noting that the EU itself was once a victim of such measures.
As an important member of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the EU has long presented itself as a defender of multilateralism. If it fails to set an example and instead takes the lead in violating WTO rules, it would seriously undermine the rules-based multilateral trading system, the spokesperson said.
China and the EU are currently engaged in dialogue under their trade and investment consultation mechanism and exploring methods to address each other's concerns, according to the spokesperson.
If the EU engages in dialogue and consultation with China while at the same time stepping up pressure against China, it would seriously damage mutual trust, disrupt the overall consultation process and affect broader China-EU economic and trade cooperation, the spokesperson said.
China called on the EU to stay on the right track of managing differences through dialogue.
China will closely follow the EU's subsequent moves, the spokesperson said, adding that if the EU insists on introducing discriminatory restrictive measures targeting Chinese companies or products, China will respond firmly to safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese industries.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.