TITLE:
China's Zhejiang activates highest-level emergency response as Typhoon Saudel approaches

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-28

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0828/c90000-20493501.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China's Zhejiang activates highest-level emergency response as Typhoon Saudel approaches
This photo taken on Aug. 27, 2026 shows a locked gate at a fishing wharf in Yueqing City, east China's Zhejiang Province. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Han Chuanhao)
HANGZHOU, Aug. 27 (Xinhua) -- East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province.
At 5 p.m., the typhoon's center was located about 320 km east of Wenzhou, packing maximum wind speeds of 45 meters per second near its center. It is moving at 10 to 15 km per hour and is expected to make landfall along the coast of Zhejiang from early morning to afternoon on Friday.
Hu Yaowen, chief engineer of the Zhejiang Provincial Emergency Management Department, warned that the typhoon's impact coincides with the astronomical high tide, likely creating a combination of strong winds, towering waves, high tides and heavy rainfall.
He added that previous continuous heavy rains have kept rivers, lakes and reservoirs at high levels, and the new round of downpours could easily trigger mountain torrents, mudslides and landslides.
To prepare for the typhoon, Zhejiang has carried out comprehensive risk inspections. More than 4,000 monitoring personnel have conducted over 19,000 patrols at more than 7,200 geological hazard potential sites and risk zones, while 564 geological experts have been dispatched to 73 counties to assist in risk identification.
In terms of flood control, plain river networks across the province have drained 437 million cubic meters of water, and large and medium-sized reservoirs have pre-released 456 million cubic meters.
All 14,682 marine fishing vessels in Zhejiang have taken shelter in harbors, and 47,983 crew members and 1,906 aquaculture workers have been evacuated ashore, ensuring that no people, vessels or activities remain at sea.
Power supply technicians inspect equipment at a fishing wharf in Yueqing City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Han Chuanhao)
People rest at a resettlement site at a middle school in Yuhuan City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi)
A staff member (R) inquires about people's need at a resettlement site at a middle school in Yuhuan City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi)
Staff members fill sand bags at a fishing wharf in Yueqing City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Han Chuanhao)
This photo taken by a mobile phone shows locals and tourists being evacuated at Gaoling Village in Hangzhou, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Photo by Hu Jianhuan/Xinhua)
Volunteers check the cordons at a fishing wharf in Yueqing City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Han Chuanhao)
A resident reinforces protective wooden boards at Dongsha Community in Yuhuan City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi)
A volunteer (2nd R) warns of typhoon risks to tourists at Dongsha Community in Yuhuan City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Xinhua/Huang Zongzhi)
Local cadres check on a villager at Jiangpai Village in Huzhou City, east China's Zhejiang Province, Aug. 27, 2026. East China's Zhejiang Province raised its typhoon emergency response to Level I, the highest level, at 8 p.m. Thursday as Typhoon Saudel, the 18th typhoon of this year, is forecast to make landfall in the province. (Photo by Yi Fan/Xinhua)
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.