TITLE:
Global resonance of Xi's selfless commitment to the people

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0903/c90000-20495681.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Global resonance of Xi's selfless commitment to the people
Chinese President Xi Jinping holds talks with Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
On the morning of August 31, during talks with Chinese President Xi Jinping, Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov expressed admiration for the remarkable development achievements China has made under the leadership of Xi, and voiced willingness to learn from China's experience in state governance, particularly Xi's commitment to the people, as embodied in his words, "I will fully commit to the people and never fail them."
In March 2019, during his state visit to Italy, Xi met with Roberto Fico, then president of the Italian Chamber of Deputies.
Fico asked Xi, "What did you feel when you were elected Chinese president?"
"Governing such a huge country requires a strong sense of responsibility and hard work," said Xi. "For the good of my people, I will put aside my own well-being. I am willing to be selfless and devote myself to China's development."
Xi has spoken of this conviction on multiple occasions. During his trip to the United States in November, 2023, Xi recalled in a speech at a welcome dinner hosted by friendly organizations that, before turning 16, he was in a village in northern Shaanxi Province, where he lived and farmed with villagers, and knew about their worries and needs. He said that, over the past half-century, he had always felt confident and strong when staying with the people. “Serving the people selflessly and living up to their expectations is my lifelong commitment,” he said.
Xi not only keeps in mind major issues concerning the national economy and people's livelihood, but also cares about the everyday concerns of ordinary people.
During his local inspection tours, Xi chatted with local residents about their daily lives and household finances, felt the quilts on their beds to make sure they stay warm, lifted the lids of cooking pots to see whether they eat well, asked about whether they had rich cultural and spiritual lives, and attached great importance to the healthy development of young people.
From securing a decisive victory in poverty alleviation to comprehensively advancing rural revitalization, from achieving a moderately prosperous society in all respects to marching toward common prosperity, Chinese Communists in the new era have borne in mind thecountry'smostfundamentalinterests — ensuring that the people live happy lives. They have devoted themselves wholeheartedly to this cause, forged ahead undauntedly to achieve it, and made persistent efforts to bring it to fruition.
People's well-being is of utmost importance in Chinese modernization. China's development achievements vividly demonstrate its people-centered development philosophy. China now has the world's largest education, social security and healthcare systems, while achieving historic strides in making education universally available. During the 14th Five-Year Plan period, average life expectancy in China rose to 79.25 years, more than 12 million new urban jobs were created each year on average, and direct settlement of cross-provincial medical expenses benefited 560 million medical visits nationwide.
In the opening year of the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30) period, China's head-of-state diplomacy has witnessed one highlight after another, with more and more foreign leaders seeking inspiration from China's governance model for their own development.
During his state visit to China, Mozambican President Daniel Francisco Chapo made a special trip to Banyan Village of Huzhu Tu Autonomous County in northwest China's Qinghai Province, where Xi Jinping visited during an inspection tour in 2016. "Seeing is believing. With China's targeted poverty alleviation policies effectively implemented, Banyan Village has undergone tremendous changes, which is truly inspiring." Chapo said, adding that the experience is also exemplary for the world.
At the entrance of Yucun Village in Anji County, east China’s Zhejiang Province, Thongloun Sisoulith, General Secretary of the Lao People's Revolutionary Party Central Committee and Lao President, took a photo of the inscription carved on a boulder, which reads,"lucid waters and lush mountains are invaluable assets." After hearing a briefing on the "Green Rural Revival Program" — which was initiated in June 2003 by Xi, then secretary of the CPC Zhejiang Provincial Committee, with a plan to renovate about 10,000 incorporated villages in five years and transform about 1,000 central villages among them into examples of moderate prosperity in all respects — Thongloun lauded the program as remarkable for creating countless beautiful villages.
During Xi’s visit to Kyrgyzstan, how to further improve people's well-being remains a key concern for him. "Pursuing high-quality cooperation on the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, a transportation artery carrying the region's aspirations for development," "further promoting personnel exchanges and strengthening cooperation in such areas as youth, media, tourism, sports, and medical care, and at subnational levels," and "steadily consolidating the societal foundation of and popular support for China-Kyrgyzstan friendship" — these are among the priorities highlighted by Xi.
"The people's aspiration for a better life is what we are striving for." This deep commitment to the people is reflected in practice, offers inspiration for the future, and allows the international community to gain a deeper appreciation of the CPC's people-centered governance philosophy and its strong sense of mission and responsibility.
"I will fully commit to the people and never fail them." This is not merely a powerful pledge, but a commitment translated into concrete action. The vision of enabling hundreds of millions of people to live better lives is resonating more widely around the world.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.