TITLE:
Harnessing collective strength for shared development and a brighter future for humanity

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-24

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0924/c90000-20503526.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Harnessing collective strength for shared development and a brighter future for humanity
Development is a timeless theme for humanity, and the master key to solving all problems facing the world.
On Sept. 21, 2021, Chinese President Xi Jinping put forward the Global Development Initiative (GDI) at the general debate of the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA). Designed as a comprehensive framework to tackle pressing development obstacles, the GDI offers a Chinese perspective that balances pragmatic action with a commitment to shared prosperity.
Over the past five years, China has remained committed to advancing the GDI, collaborating with international partners to translate its vision into concrete results and injecting renewed momentum into global development amid growing uncertainty.
Rising geopolitical tensions, the resurgence of unilateral policies, and a sluggish global economic recovery have exacerbated existing imbalances, governance gaps, and inequities.
The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Report 2026, released by the United Nations recently, shows that of the 139 SDG targets with available trend data, only 36 percent are on track or making moderate progress; nearly half are advancing too slowly; and 15 percent have actually regressed. Global development is facing serious challenges.
The GDI responds directly to these systemic challenges by addressing structural gaps in global development governance. Grounded in six core principles -- development as a priority, a people-centered approach, inclusive development that benefits all, innovation-driven development, harmony between man and nature, and results-oriented actions -- it has broadened the practical pathways for sustainable progress and deepened the architecture of global development cooperation.
Rather than treating development resources as tools for political leverage or strategic competition, the GDI has always been guided by the common well-being of humanity. It recognizes varying national development stages, needs, and sovereign rights, offering robust support to developing countries as they pursue independent, equitable, and sustainable growth.
Since its launch, the GDI has steadily expanded its network of partners and grown in international relevance. China has held high-level meetings on the GDI during four consecutive UNGA sessions and launched the Forum on Global Action for Shared Development to strengthen policy dialogue and exchanges of ideas.
More than 130 countries and international organizations have expressed support for the GDI and participated in its cooperation, and 88 countries have joined the Group of Friends of the GDI.
The U.N. Task Force on Leveraging Partnerships Toward the Implementation of the 2030 Agenda has attracted the participation of more than 20 development agencies. To complement these efforts, China has launched more than 30 cooperation mechanisms and platforms.
Through the China-U.N. Peace and Development Fund, the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, and other funding initiatives, more than US$23 billion have been mobilized. Over 2,000 cooperation projects have been launched under joint efforts, providing training for more than 200,000 people in different professions. This has offered strong support for Global South countries to enhance their development capability.
The GDI is a practical platform for international cooperation that brings hope, opportunities and sustainable development to millions of people, said Kenyan Ambassador to China Willy Kipkorir Bett.
Over the past five years, people-centered cooperation projects have been launched across the world, bringing tangible benefits to ordinary people in more than 120 countries, and making the gains of common development tangible and accessible.
In Nigeria, a China-aided Juncao technology demonstration farm has helped boost grain production and has been hailed by the local government as a model project for ensuring food security.
In Grenada, Chinese agricultural specialists have conducted field training on advanced cultivation methods, enabling farmers to improve crop quality, stabilize incomes, and modernize niche agricultural sectors.
Meanwhile, Laos's Monsoon Wind Power Project has commenced operations, generating over 1,000 permanent jobs, cutting annual carbon emissions by 1.56 million tons, and advancing the country's transition toward green, low-carbon energy systems.
Parallel to infrastructure and agricultural initiatives, China has established capacity-building platforms such as the China House of Foreign-Aid Programs Trainee and the Youth Leaders' Community for Global Development. These programs are nurturing a new generation of development professionals and engaging youth in sustainability efforts, ensuring long-term momentum for shared global progress.
As an important global public good provided by China to the international community, the fundamental logic of the GDI is to make the pie bigger rather than divide it up, and to empower all for win-win outcomes rather than engage in zero-sum competition. This stands in fundamental contrast to the exclusionary logic underlying the so-called "China squeeze" narrative promoted by some Western institutions and media.
Global development cooperation is currently at a critical stage of shifting its sources of momentum and adjusting its structure. Revitalizing global development requires countries to build greater solidarity and pool their strength to address imbalances in development. It also calls for practicing true multilateralism and improving the global governance system.
As a new round of scientific and technological revolution, including artificial intelligence, accelerates, all countries need to uphold openness and inclusiveness, learn from one another and draw on each other's strengths, break down technological barriers and barriers to cooperation, and ensure that every country can keep pace with the times.
Looking ahead, China will continue to fulfill its role as a responsible major country, deepen all-round international development cooperation, and work with countries around the world with unity and determination to advance the implementation of the GDI, improve global development governance, and jointly illuminate a brighter future of prosperity and progress for humanity.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.