TITLE:
HKSAR celebrates National Day with fireworks, festivities

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-02

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
http://en.people.cn/n3/2026/1002/c90000-20505511.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
HKSAR celebrates National Day with fireworks, festivities
Tourists watch the fireworks show celebrating the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in Hong Kong, south China, Oct. 1, 2026. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)
HONG KONG, Oct. 2 (Xinhua) -- On Thursday evening, both sides of the Victoria Harbour were teeming with crowds watching an eight-part fireworks show celebrating the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
The 23-minute spectacle was a feast for the eyes and ears. With majestic music playing in the background, green and blue fireworks lit up the night sky in an ode to the country's mountains and rivers, while golden rings resembling intersecting orbits showcased the wonders of the cosmos.
Awestruck crowds cheered while filming the show. Reluctant to leave, many of them lingered for a stroll or some more photos, basking in the jubilant mood.
Tourists watch the fireworks show celebrating the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in Hong Kong, south China, Oct. 1, 2026. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)
The fireworks show was one episode of the day-long National Day celebrations, which started with a flag-raising ceremony and a reception hosted by the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) government in the morning.
Noting that it was the first National Day celebrated since the announcement of Hong Kong's first five-year plan, HKSAR Chief Executive John Lee said at the reception that the plan provides a strategic roadmap for Hong Kong to seize the opportunities brought by national development by applying its unique advantages under "one country, two systems."
"I am confident that as long as we, each dedicated to our respective roles, join hands and work in synergy with one another, Hong Kong will certainly be able to set out on a path to a brighter and more prosperous future," said Lee.
The government of China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) holds a flag-raising ceremony to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in south China's Hong Kong, Oct. 1, 2026. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)
Also at the reception, Hong Kong's first astronaut Lai Ka-ying, who is now working as the payload specialist aboard Tiangong space station, said via video that she was extremely excited to celebrate the National Day in space, and deeply proud to be part of the country's manned space program.
Districts across Hong Kong came up with their unique festivities, including a concert, a cheongsam ("long gown" in Cantonese) exhibition, and a food fair.
The government of China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) holds a flag-raising ceremony to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China in south China's Hong Kong, Oct. 1, 2026. (Xinhua/Chen Duo)
The Kai Tak Sports Park staged dance performances of Anhui Flower Drum Lantern, a national intangible cultural heritage item. Visitors also got a chance to learn and try Chinese knots and calligraphy there.
Special treats also sweetened the National Day joy. On Thursday, residents and tourists can ride the tram for free, and watch movies at half price. Some public museums and parks opened for free, while 3,800 eateries offered discounts.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.