TITLE:
Hong Kong's 1st five-year plan responds to public aspirations

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-20

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0920/c90000-20501686.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Hong Kong's 1st five-year plan responds to public aspirations
HONG KONG, Sept. 19 (Xinhua) -- The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR)'s first five-year plan for economic and social development (2026-2030) released earlier this week turns the public's key everyday concerns into measurable, deliverable commitments to improve livelihoods across the city.
The five-year plan and the 2026 policy address were both released on Sept. 16. The five-year plan sets out a blueprint for the future, and the policy address focuses on immediate priorities and actionable details.
Housing is the top livelihood concern for Hong Kong residents. The plan clearly sets a public housing construction target of about 196,000 units over the next five years, while pledging to continuously optimize the home-ownership ladder and striving to largely eliminate substandard subdivided units in residential buildings by 2030.
This proactive housing policy is widely seen as a shift in housing supply toward a "results-oriented" governance model, placing greater emphasis on tangible outcomes and real effectiveness.
The Northern Metropolis is regarded as a new engine to resolve Hong Kong's deep-seated livelihood challenges in housing, employment, and youth development. The plan specifies a further upgrade for the Northern Metropolis University Town under the development concept of "One Town, Five Elements." By coordinating five key elements -- education, technology, industry, talent, and urban development, it aims to foster an innovation ecosystem deeply integrating industry, academia, and research.
"Only by expanding space through development can improvements in people's livelihood have lasting momentum," said Holden Chow, a member of the Legislative Council of the HKSAR.
Chow noted that this approach turns Hong Kong into a "super reservoir" for global talent and positions the Northern Metropolis as a strategic hub connecting the mainland and global markets.
Ms. Lau, a Hong Kong resident who has waited three years for public rental housing and currently lives in a subdivided flat in Kowloon Bay, carefully flipped through the housing policy sections after receiving copies of the five-year plan and policy address.
"Whether it is increasing the supply of Light Public Housing or eliminating substandard subdivided units, it gives me hope of moving into public housing sooner," she said.
During the formulation of this inaugural five-year plan, the HKSAR government held a two-month public consultation, receiving over 17,000 views and suggestions across various sectors. Incorporating the public's voices into the top-level design ensures the policies align better with people's needs and sentiment.
Quality healthcare is another livelihood priority. The five-year plan specifies that public hospital beds will increase to approximately 35,000 by 2031, and the cumulative number of beneficiaries of district health centers will reach 1 million within five years, charting a clear path to expand capacity and enhance quality.
Hong Kong's healthcare reform places greater emphasis on "quality enhancement." By promoting all-round, high-quality, and high-standard development of traditional Chinese medicine, advancing the digital transformation of public hospitals, and optimizing medical talent cultivation, the primary healthcare network continues to be strengthened to deliver more continuous, convenient, and affordable healthcare.
Young people are Hong Kong's future. The five-year plan establishes two dedicated youth sections, elevating youth development to a core position in governance. Ranging from expanding development space to supporting them in pursuing their dreams, the plan maps out systematic arrangements for their growth and success.
Through a dedicated task force, Hong Kong will intensify promotion of its academic, scientific research, and international collaboration resources, highlighting both the "Study in Hong Kong" and "Study Tour in Hong Kong" brands. This not only provides quality educational choices for students from home and abroad, but also builds up youth momentum for Hong Kong's future.
Judith Yu, chair of the Hong Kong Chamber of Commerce in China, said that by integrating education, talent, and youth development into a systematic framework, the five-year plan instills greater confidence in the future among all residents, especially the younger generation.
Yu suggested that local industries establish lasting channels for local young people to integrate into and serve the overall national development through internships and engagement across diverse fields such as innovation and technology.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.