TITLE:
Joining hands for new chapter of cooperation, shared development

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-31

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0831/c90000-20494128.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Joining hands for new chapter of cooperation, shared development
From Aug. 30 to Sept. 3, Chinese President Xi Jinping is paying a state visit to Kyrgyzstan and will attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit 2026 in Bishkek and pay a state visit to Egypt upon the invitation of President Sadyr Japarov of Kyrgyzstan and President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt.
This major head-of-state diplomatic engagement will help build broader consensus on advancing high-quality development of the SCO and reforming and improving the global governance system, further enrich the China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future, and advance the China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership.
By bringing together greater momentum for development and greater impact through cooperation, the visits will contribute more to peace and development in the region and beyond.
This year marks the 25th anniversary of the founding of the SCO. Over the past 25 years, member states have upheld the Shanghai Spirit, remained committed to solidarity and cooperation, and deepened collaboration across the board.
As a result, the SCO has grown into a comprehensive regional cooperation organization that covers the largest area and population with enormous development potential, successfully explored a new type of regional cooperation, and set an example of a new type of international relations.
Last year's SCO Summit in Tianjin provided strategic planning on the development of the SCO for the next decade, and opened up a new stage of high-quality development of the organization.
At this year's summit in Bishkek, Xi will have in-depth exchanges of views with participating leaders on deepening SCO cooperation in various fields under the new circumstances and major international and regional issues of the times.
These exchanges will help further build consensus and open a new chapter of cooperation, making a positive contribution to peace, stability, development and revitalization in countries across the region and to building a community with a shared future for humanity.
China and Kyrgyzstan are good neighbors connected by mountains and rivers, good friends of mutual trust, and good partners with a common pursuit.
Last year, Xi and Japarov met three times, steering China-Kyrgyzstan cooperation into a golden period of rapid development. This visit will be Xi's first state visit to Kyrgyzstan in seven years. During the visit, Xi will have an in-depth exchange of views on bilateral relations, cooperation in key areas, and international and regional situation with Japarov in their talks, and attend various state events.
China is now embarking on the 15th Five-Year Plan, while Kyrgyzstan is actively implementing its National Development Program for the period from 2025 to 2030. Xi's visit will give fresh impetus to high-quality development of mutually beneficial cooperation on all fronts between the two countries, further enrich the China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future and bring more benefits to the two peoples.
This year marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of China-Egypt diplomatic relations. Over the past 70 years, no matter how the international and regional landscape has changed, the two countries have consistently treated each other with mutual respect and equality, built mutual trust and stood by each other. China-Egypt relations have become a model of solidarity, cooperation and mutual benefit among developing countries.
In recent years, under the strategic guidance of Xi and El-Sisi, the two countries have deepened political mutual trust, achieved fruitful outcomes in cooperation across various fields, and engaged in increasingly frequent people-to-people exchanges and close and effective coordination on multilateral occasions. China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership has grown by leaps and bounds, and reached an all-time high.
This visit marks Xi's first state visit to Egypt in 10 years. It carries great significance in building on the past achievements and charting the future. Through the visit, China looks forward to working with Egypt to carry forward traditional friendship, provide each other with firm support, expand mutually beneficial cooperation, and bolster each other's modernization, so that they can jointly write a new chapter of China-Egypt relations and make positive contributions to peace and stability in the region and beyond.
As an important force for stability, constructive cooperation and progress in today's world, the SCO can play an even greater and more positive role in promoting peace, development, cooperation and mutual benefit when it further builds consensus among its members and translates that consensus into effective action.
Stronger cooperation between China and Kyrgyzstan, and between China and Egypt, will inject greater positive energy into safeguarding regional peace and stability and promoting common development.
This major head-of-state diplomatic engagement will surely build broader consensus on pursuing peace, seeking development, promoting cooperation and upholding justice. It will bring greater certainty to a world undergoing turbulence and transformation and contribute to building a community with a shared future for humanity.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.