TITLE:
Nantong of China's Jiangsu sees improved riverfront environment along Yangtze River

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0930/c90000-20504951.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Nantong of China's Jiangsu sees improved riverfront environment along Yangtze River
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows enthusiasts riding bicycles at an ecological sightseeing zone along the Yangtze River in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Photo by Xu Congjun/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows a view of a wetland park along the Yangtze River in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 29, 2026 shows a wetland park in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Photo by Qian Xianhua/Xinhua)
Volunteers pick up garbage at an ecological sightseeing zone in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province, Sept. 29, 2026. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Photo by Xu Congjun/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows a view of a wetland park along the Yangtze River in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Photo by Xu Congjun/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows enthusiasts riding bicycles at an ecological sightseeing zone along the Yangtze River in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
An aerial drone photo taken on June 4, 2024 shows enthusiasts riding bicycles at a wetland park in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Photo by Qian Xianhua/Xinhua)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows enthusiasts riding bicycles at an ecological sightseeing zone along the Yangtze River in the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone, east China's Jiangsu Province. In recent years, local government of the Nantong Economic and Technological Development Zone has made efforts in the management of riverfront environment along the Yangtze River, building up wetland park, riverfront ecological sightseeing zone, and creating leisure and eco-friendly space for citizens. (Xinhua/Ji Chunpeng)
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.