TITLE:
Renovation of historical site of Zunyi Meeting basically completed

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-29

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0929/c90000-20504707.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Renovation of historical site of Zunyi Meeting basically completed
Tourists visit the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 25, 2026. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Photo by Zhang Zhengju/Xinhua)
People visit the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Xin Yuewei)
A docent gives an introduction at the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
A docent (L) gives an introduction at the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
Tourists visit the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 25, 2026. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Photo by Zhang Zhengju/Xinhua)
Journalists work at the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province, Sept. 28, 2026. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows a view of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
A drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows a view of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
An aerial drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows visitors posing for a group photo at the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
A drone photo taken on Sept. 28, 2026 shows a view of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting in Zunyi City, southwest China's Guizhou Province. The renovation of the historical site of the Zunyi Meeting has been basically completed. The Zunyi Meeting was held in January 1935 during the Long March. The meeting is regarded as a milestone in the history of the Communist Party of China (CPC), marking the formation of its first generation of central collective leadership. (Xinhua/Yang Wenbin)
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.