TITLE:
Striving to be a pioneering force, shouldering the responsibilities of the times

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-15

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0915/c90000-20499872.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Striving to be a pioneering force, shouldering the responsibilities of the times
On the afternoon of Sept. 12, local time, Chinese President Xi Jinping attended the Session I of the 18th BRICS Summit in New Delhi, India.
Xi reviewed the achievements of BRICS cooperation over the past 20 years and stressed that BRICS must stand firmly on the right side of history, strive to be a pioneer of our times, steer the international order in a direction that is more just and equitable, and work together to build a community with a shared future for humanity.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of BRICS cooperation. BRICS countries have come together in pursuit of common development, in line with the prevailing trend of peace and development in the world.
From the original "BRIC" to "BRICS," followed by historic expansion, and from the innovative "BRICS Plus" cooperation model to the steadily improving partner country mechanism, BRICS has consistently upheld the spirit of openness, inclusiveness, and win-win cooperation. It has grown into a leading force within the Global South.
Today, the BRICS family accounts for more than half of the world's population and around 30 percent of the global economy, while contributing more than 50 percent of global economic growth. It has become a strong force on the international stage -- dedicated to upholding peace, promoting development, and defending justice. The historic expansion of BRICS has given rise to a comprehensive, multi-tiered cooperation framework, ushering "greater BRICS" cooperation into a new stage of high-quality development.
In recent years, the Global South has grown remarkably stronger, driving profound shifts in the balance of international forces and making the trend toward a multipolar world unstoppable. As a model of unity and self-reliance among emerging markets and developing countries, BRICS now shoulders greater responsibilities and carries higher expectations. It should therefore do more to promote solidarity and cooperation across the Global South and contribute more to a bright future of peace, security, prosperity, and progress.
China has always been a driving force and builder of BRICS cooperation. From proposing the "BRICS Plus" model at the 2017 BRICS Summit in Xiamen, southeast China's Fujian province, to launching the BRICS expansion process during China's BRICS presidency in 2022, and then advancing the vision of high-quality "greater BRICS" cooperation at the 2024 BRICS Summit in Kazan, Russia, China has played a pivotal role at every key juncture of BRICS development, leaving a distinctive Chinese imprint.
A series of Chinese proposals have been translated into tangible cooperation outcomes, fully demonstrating China's important role as a mainstay of BRICS cooperation and a core member of the Global South.
At this year's summit, Xi said that BRICS should be a pioneer in advancing innovation-driven development, a pioneer in upholding peace and stability, a pioneer in facilitating mutual learning between civilizations, and a pioneer in reforming and improving global governance. This Chinese approach to ensuring steady and sustained progress in BRICS cooperation will inject greater certainty, stability, and positive energy into a world marked by turbulence and transformation.
In 2027, China will take over the BRICS presidency and host the 19th BRICS Summit. China stands ready to work with all parties to build consensus, create a brighter future, usher in the third "Golden Decade" of BRICS cooperation, and elevate "greater BRICS" cooperation to new heights.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.