TITLE:
Xi attends welcome ceremony held by Trump

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-25

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0925/c90000-20503715.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi attends welcome ceremony held by Trump
U.S. President Donald Trump holds a welcome ceremony for Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. (Xinhua/Wang Ye)
WASHINGTON, Sept. 24 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Thursday morning attended a welcome ceremony held by U.S. President Donald Trump at the White House.
Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan pose for a group photo with U.S. President Donald Trump and his wife Melania Trump during a welcome ceremony at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. Trump held a welcome ceremony for Xi, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan pose for a group photo with U.S. President Donald Trump and his wife Melania Trump during a welcome ceremony at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. Trump held a welcome ceremony for Xi, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House on Thursday. (Xinhua/Wang Ye)
Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan pose for a group photo with U.S. President Donald Trump and his wife Melania Trump during a welcome ceremony at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. Trump held a welcome ceremony for Xi, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
U.S. President Donald Trump holds a welcome ceremony for Chinese President Xi Jinping, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. (Xinhua/Yin Bogu)
Chinese President Xi Jinping addresses a welcome ceremony held by U.S. President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. Trump held a welcome ceremony for Xi, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House on Thursday. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
Chinese President Xi Jinping addresses a welcome ceremony held by U.S. President Donald Trump at the White House in Washington, D.C., the United States, Sept. 24, 2026. Trump held a welcome ceremony for Xi, who is on a state visit to the United States, at the White House on Thursday. (Xinhua/Li Xiang)
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.