TITLE:
Xi's four-point proposal offers Chinese solution for Mideast peace, stability: Chinese FM

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0903/c90000-20495981.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi's four-point proposal offers Chinese solution for Mideast peace, stability: Chinese FM
BEIJING, Sept. 3 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping's four-point proposal on building a new security architecture in the Middle East once again offers a Chinese solution for achieving long-term peace and stability in the region, Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi has said.
Wang, also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, made the remarks while briefing reporters on the conclusion of Xi's attendance at the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Bishkek Summit and state visits to Kyrgyzstan and Egypt.
Xi put forward the proposal in his talks with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi, calling for unleashing internal drivers, advancing an integrated approach, cementing development foundation, and enhancing international coordination.
International observers believe that Xi's proposal has offered a viable path toward resolving the Middle East's security dilemma, Wang said.
During the visit, Xi had in-depth exchanges with leaders of various countries on world affairs and hotspot issues, speaking up for peace and standing up for justice, said Wang.
On the sidelines of the Bishkek summit, Xi held separate meetings with Russian President Vladimir Putin, Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev and Mongolian President Ukhnaa Khurelsukh.
Xi and Putin agreed to deepen China-Russia comprehensive strategic coordination, advance reform of global governance, promote a multipolar world, and jointly safeguard world peace, stability and development, Wang noted.
Guided by Xi Jinping Thought on Diplomacy, China has been exploring a distinctly Chinese approach to resolving hotspot issues, Wang said, adding that no matter how complex the disputes or how intense the conflicts, China will always stand firmly on the side of peace and dialogue and on the right side of history.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.