TITLE:
Xi, Peng Liyuan visit Grand Egyptian Museum

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
People Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.people.cn/n3/2026/0903/c90000-20495438.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi, Peng Liyuan visit Grand Egyptian Museum
Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife Peng Liyuan, accompanied by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and his wife Entissar El-Sisi, tour the Grand Egyptian Museum in Giza, Egypt, Sept. 2, 2026. (Xinhua/Xie Huanchi)
CAIRO, Sept. 2 (Xinhua) -- Chinese President Xi Jinping and his wife, Peng Liyuan, visited on Wednesday the Grand Egyptian Museum accompanied by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and his wife.
The two heads of state and their spouses took in the exquisite and imposing stone carvings and inscribed stone pillars. They then gazed out at the pyramids from the museum's observation deck.
Entering the Tutankhamun exhibition hall, the two presidents viewed such prized treasures as the pharaoh's throne, the golden mask and royal chariots.
Noting that China and Egypt are both ancient civilizations and countries rich in World Heritage sites, Xi said that across time and space, the two civilizations have been reaching out to each other, adding new chapters of everlasting friendship between the two peoples.
Xi called on both sides to uphold the vision of civilization based on equality, mutual learning, dialogue and inclusiveness, and implement the Global Civilization Initiative.
He also urged the two countries to promote the inclusive coexistence and mutual learning among different civilizations, and pool greater strength from civilizations to advance the building of a community with a shared future for humanity.
Sisi thanked Xi for extending congratulations on the opening of the museum last year. He said the ancient Egyptian and Chinese civilizations share the qualities of openness, inclusiveness and harmonious coexistence amid diversity, which closely aligns with the vision of the Global Civilization Initiative proposed by Xi.
The Egyptian side stands ready to work with China to step up people-to-people and cultural exchanges, promote mutual learning among civilizations, and make the world more harmonious and inclusive, Sisi said.
Copyright © 2026 People's Daily Online. All Rights Reserved.