TITLE:
CPC leadership meeting studies major issues on Party self-governance, sets dates for Party plenum

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-09/22/c_1215203.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
CPC leadership meeting studies major issues on Party self-governance, sets dates for Party plenum
BEIJING -- Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on Monday chaired a meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, which studied major issues on strengthening full and rigorous Party self-governance with perseverance and set the dates for an upcoming Party plenum in October.
The meeting decided that the fifth plenary session of the 20th Central Committee of the CPC will be held from Oct. 26 to 29 in Beijing.
The meeting also decided to submit a document on the CPC Central Committee's decision regarding strengthening full and rigorous Party self-governance with perseverance to the plenum for deliberation.
An earlier draft of the decision was circulated among Party members and non-Party figures for comment, drawing broad support from those consulted.
The meeting noted that the document provides an objective assessment of the achievements and experience in advancing full and rigorous Party self-governance in the new era, offers an in-depth analysis of the situation and tasks facing Party building in the present and coming period, and sets out strategic plans for continuing to advance full and rigorous Party self-governance.
The meeting stressed that, to strengthen full and rigorous Party self-governance with perseverance, it is imperative to uphold the Party's overall leadership and the centralized, unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee, maintain a strict approach without wavering, and improve the systems for exercising full and rigorous self-governance.
Efforts must be made to ensure that the Party remains a vibrant Marxist governing party that stays at the forefront of the times, enjoys the wholehearted support of the people, withstands all tests, and serves as the strong leadership core in building socialism with Chinese characteristics, said the meeting.
The meeting called for fully recognizing the significance and urgency of unswervingly advancing full and rigorous Party self-governance, adopting higher standards and taking more concrete measures to address the prominent issues facing Party building.
Other matters were also discussed at the meeting.