TITLE:
Xi extends condolences to Indonesian president over strong earthquake

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-18

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-08/18/c_1206128.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi extends condolences to Indonesian president over strong earthquake
Source: XinhuaUpdated: 2026-08-18
Share
Share
BEIJING -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday sent a message of condolence to Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto over the strong earthquake that struck Indonesia recently.
In his message, Xi said that upon learning that the strong earthquake caused serious casualties and property losses, he would like to extend, on behalf of the Chinese government and people, deep condolences over those who lost their lives and sincere sympathies to the bereaved families and the injured.
Xi expressed belief that under the leadership of the Indonesian government led by Prabowo, the Indonesian people will overcome the disaster and rebuild their homeland at an early date.
This privacy policy describes how qstheory.cn website uses and protects any information that you give us. We
are committed to ensuring that your privacy is protected. If you provide us with personal information through
qstheory.cn, you can be assured that it will only be used in accordance with this privacy statement.
1. Gathering of Personally-Identifying Information
Certain visitors to qstheory.cn choose to interact with qstheory.cn in ways that require qstheory.cn to gather
personally-identifying information. The amount and type of information that qstheory.cn gathers depends on the
nature of the interaction. For example, we ask visitors who use our visitor's personal page system to provide a
username and email address.
In each case, qstheory.cn collects such information only insofar as is necessary or appropriate to fulfill the
purpose of the visitor's interaction with qstheory.cn. qstheory.cn does not disclose personally-identifying
information.
2. Use of personal information
We use the information you provide to register for an account, receive newsletters, use certain other services,
or participate in qstheory.cn's open source project in any other way.
We will not sell or lease your personal information to third parties unless we have your permission or are
required by law to do so.
Letter of Authority
I agree to receive newsletters via E-mail for free from Qiushi. And I
promise that I won't display, print or use the content for commercial or illegal use.
Qiushi Newsletter, a bimonthly on China's governance and perspectives, targets at online readers. With important articles selected or translated from the Chinese or English versions of Qiushi Journal, the Newsletter gives details of the CPC's theories, policies, and practical experience in national governance for domestic and foreign readers.