TITLE:
Xi holds phone talks with British PM

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-09/09/c_1212141.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi holds phone talks with British PM
BEIJING -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday held phone talks with British Prime Minister Andy Burnham.
Congratulating Burnham on assuming office as British prime minister, Xi said that China and Britain are comprehensive strategic partners.
Despite differences in their social systems and national conditions, the two countries share more common interests than differences. Xi urged the two sides to respect and trust each other, overcome differences, seek common ground and expand mutually beneficial cooperation.
Both governments are committed to developing their economies and improving people's well-being, and the two countries can complement each other's strengths and facilitate each other's development, Xi said.
During the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-2030), China will further expand opening up in such areas as education, healthcare and finance, all of which offer great potential for bilateral cooperation, Xi said.
Pointing out that China and Britain are both major countries in science and technology with rich resources in education, culture, sports and other fields, Xi called on the two sides to adopt an open and forward-looking approach and strengthen exchanges and cooperation in various fields.
Xi expressed the hope that the British side will fully protect the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese investors.
Xi noted that China and Britain, as permanent members of the UN Security Council and major economies in the world, both support multilateralism and open trade and uphold the central role of the United Nations.
The two sides should strengthen communication and coordination within frameworks such as the United Nations, the Group of 20 and the World Trade Organization, and promote an equal and orderly multipolar world and a universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization, Xi said.
Burnham agreed, saying that he had served as mayor of Manchester for many years and maintained friendly exchanges with China for years. President Xi's visit to Manchester during his state visit to Britain in 2015 had a significant impact on promoting local exchanges and cooperation with China, Burnham said.
Burnham said Britain is willing to maintain continuity in its policy toward China and remain firmly committed to developing a long-term, stable strategic partnership between Britain and China. Britain is ready to conduct high-level exchanges with China, advance bilateral cooperation in various fields, strengthen people-to-people exchanges, and restore bilateral relations to their historic high, so as to better benefit the peoples of both countries, Burnham added.
Burnham said that Britain's position on the Taiwan question remains unchanged. Amid the current turbulent and complex international landscape undergoing changes, Britain and China, as permanent members of the UN Security Council, should promote the resolution of international hotspot issues through dialogue, jointly address global challenges such as climate change, and work together to safeguard world stability and prosperity, Burnham added.
Burnham spoke highly of China's efficient and effective response to the mudslide disaster that struck Gyirong Port in southwest China's Xizang Autonomous Region, and expressed appreciation for China's assistance to affected British citizens.