TITLE:
Xi says China ready to work with Uzbekistan to usher in new "golden decade" for bilateral relations

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-01

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-09/01/c_1209932.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi says China ready to work with Uzbekistan to usher in new "golden decade" for bilateral relations
Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Summit 2026 in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. [Xinhua/Li Xiang]
BISHKEK -- Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Monday that China stands ready to work with Uzbekistan to usher in a new "golden decade" for bilateral relations, as the two sides celebrate the 10th anniversary of the China-Uzbekistan comprehensive strategic partnership.
Xi made the remarks in a meeting with Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit 2026 in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan.
Under the leadership of the two heads of state, bilateral relations have continued to improve and upgrade, with fruitful cooperation across various fields and notable progress in building a China-Uzbekistan community with a shared future, Xi said.
China stands ready to work with Uzbekistan to consolidate strategic mutual trust and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, Xi added.
Xi stressed that no matter how the international situation changes, China's commitment to deepening bilateral friendship will remain unwavering, and China will continue to support Uzbekistan in pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions.
Xi called on the two sides to work together to advance bilateral cooperation. He said the two sides should pursue high-quality construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, expand cooperation in areas such as artificial intelligence and anti-desertification, and uphold mutual benefit and win-win outcomes.
Efforts should also be made to sustain the momentum of local-level exchanges, accelerate the establishment of cultural centers in each other's countries, expand cooperation in fields including education and poverty reduction, and promote mutual understanding between the two peoples, Xi said.
The two sides should make good use of their law enforcement and security cooperation mechanisms, work together to combat the "three evil forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and strengthen the security barrier, Xi said.
As founding members of the SCO, China and Uzbekistan should work together to fully implement the outcomes of the Tianjin Summit and promote development and prosperity in the region, Xi said.
Mirziyoyev, for his part, extended warm congratulations on China's continuous major development achievements under Xi's leadership, noting that China has responded to global challenges with confidence and resolve. He expressed full confidence in the bright prospects of Chinese modernization.
Uzbekistan and China share a profound friendship and have always understood and supported each other, he said, noting that Xi's vision has opened up broad prospects for Uzbekistan-China relations and guided the comprehensive development of cooperation in various fields between the two sides.
Mirziyoyev added that Uzbekistan remains unwavering in its commitment to developing relations with China, a position that will not change regardless of how the international situation evolves.
Uzbekistan stands ready to work with China to deepen political mutual trust, expand trade and investment, enhance cooperation in fields such as agriculture, transportation, energy, minerals, science and technology, promote people-to-people exchanges, jointly combat the "three evil forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and bring bilateral relations to a higher level, said Mirziyoyev.
Uzbekistan firmly adheres to the one-China principle, highly recognizes the four global initiatives proposed by Xi, and is ready to join hands with China to promote the development of the SCO and jointly safeguard international fairness and justice, Mirziyoyev said.
Chinese President Xi Jinping meets with Uzbek President Shavkat Mirziyoyev on the sidelines of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Summit 2026 in Bishkek, Kyrgyzstan, Aug. 31, 2026. [Xinhua/Yan Yan]