TITLE:
Xi to attend SCO summit, pay state visit to Kyrgyzstan, Egypt

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-27

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-08/27/c_1208776.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi to attend SCO summit, pay state visit to Kyrgyzstan, Egypt
BEIJING -- From Aug. 30 to Sept. 3, Chinese President Xi Jinping will attend the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) Summit 2026 in Bishkek, and pay a state visit to Kyrgyzstan and Egypt upon the invitation of President Sadyr Japarov of Kyrgyzstan and President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of Egypt, the Chinese foreign ministry announced on Wednesday.
This year marks the 25th founding anniversary of the SCO. At the Bishkek Summit, Xi will have in-depth exchanges of views with participating leaders on deepening SCO cooperation in various fields under the new circumstances and major international and regional issues, Chinese foreign ministry spokesperson Lin Jian told a regular news briefing when asked for more information about the trip.
They will provide guidance for the SCO's high-quality development and participation in the reform and development of the global governance system, Lin said.
During his stay in Kyrgyzstan, Xi will have an in-depth exchange of views on bilateral relations, cooperation in key areas, and international and regional situation with his Kyrgyz counterpart in their talks, and attend various state events, Lin noted.
Lin said China looks forward to working with Kyrgyzstan to take this visit as an opportunity to promote high-quality development of mutually beneficial cooperation on all fronts, add new dimensions to the China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future, and bring more benefits to the two peoples.
The Egypt leg of Xi's trip, his first state visit to the country in a decade, coincides with the 70th anniversary of bilateral diplomatic ties, the spokesperson said.
The Chinese and Egyptian presidents will have an in-depth exchange of views on bilateral relations and international and regional issues of mutual interest, according to Lin.
Through the visit, China looks forward to working with Egypt to carry forward traditional friendship, render each other firm support, expand mutually beneficial cooperation, and bolster each other's modernization, thereby jointly drawing a new chapter of bilateral relations and contributing to regional and world peace and stability, Lin added.