TITLE:
Xi urges advancing socialism with Chinese characteristics on centenary of late leader Jiang Zemin

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-18

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-08/18/c_1206127.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi urges advancing socialism with Chinese characteristics on centenary of late leader Jiang Zemin
Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, delivers an important speech at a grand gathering to commemorate the birth centenary of late leader Jiang Zemin at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 17, 2026. [Xinhua/Li Xiang]
BEIJING -- Chinese President Xi Jinping on Monday hailed the "indelible contributions" of late leader Jiang Zemin and urged the whole Communist Party of China (CPC) and the Chinese people of all ethnic groups to continue advancing the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics.
Xi, also general secretary of the CPC Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks at a grand gathering at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing marking the centenary of Jiang's birth.
"We pay high tribute to his towering achievements and learn from his noble demeanor," Xi said, calling for continuous efforts to create better lives for the Chinese people and write an even more brilliant chapter for the Chinese nation.
In his tribute, Xi described Jiang as a long-tested communist fighter and an outstanding leader of the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics. Jiang was the core of the third generation of the Party's central collective leadership and the principal founder of the Theory of Three Represents.
Jiang was born in August 1926 in Yangzhou, Jiangsu Province. In 1989, he was elected general secretary of the CPC Central Committee. He passed away in 2022 at the age of 96.
About 6,000 people were present at Monday's commemoration, which was presided over by Li Qiang and attended by Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, and Li Xi -- all members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee -- as well as Vice President Han Zheng.
Xi and other leaders met with members of Jiang's family and took group photos with them before the gathering began.
FIRMNESS IN POLITICAL CONVICTION
Jiang made indelible contributions to safeguarding the great cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics, breaking new ground in reform and opening up in all respects, achieving overall moderate prosperity in people's lives and successfully advancing the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics into the 21st century, Xi said.
Xi spoke highly of Jiang's steadfast commitment to communist ideals and his devotion to the Party and the people, calling on Party members to draw strength from his firm political conviction.
He highlighted Jiang's view that the farther the country advances along the path of reform and opening up and the more its economy develops, the more crucial it becomes to strengthen the Party's leadership and improve Party building.
On the new journey, Xi stressed, it is imperative to uphold the overall leadership of the Party and the centralized, unified leadership of the CPC Central Committee, unswervingly strengthen the full and rigorous Party self-governance, and ensure the Party remains the strong leadership core in the cause of socialism with Chinese characteristics.
Jiang always stood with the people and cared for their well-being, Xi said, calling for efforts to learn from the late leader's dedication to and profound love for the people.
Jiang pointed out that the fundamental goal of economic development is to raise people's living standards. He also placed emphasis on building a moderately prosperous society at a higher level in an all-round way that would benefit over a billion people, Xi said.
Xi underscored the importance of adhering to a people-centered approach to development and demanded solid steps in promoting the all-round development of the people and common prosperity for all on the new journey.
INNOVATIVE SPIRIT, STRATEGIC THINKING, COURAGE AND VISION
Xi commended Jiang's efforts in advancing innovations in theory, institutions, science and technology, culture, and other fields, calling for drawing on his innovative spirit.
By pooling the wisdom of the whole Party, Jiang created the Theory of Three Represents, which has further answered the questions of what socialism is and how to build it, and creatively addressed what kind of Party to build and how to build it, Xi said.
Xi highlighted Jiang's role in opening China further to the world, including leading the country's accession to the World Trade Organization.
On the new journey, Xi said, we must properly respond to the questions facing China, the world, the people and the times, and constantly break new ground in adapting Marxism to the Chinese context and the needs of the times.
Jiang's far-sightedness and strategic thinking were highlighted by Xi. With an international perspective and a vision for the future, Jiang advanced the cause of the Party and the state with a slew of major decisions and measures, Xi said.
Jiang made arrangements with foresight for building a moderately prosperous society in all respects, and put forth a series of thoughts on foreign affairs and international strategies to advance the development of a multipolar world and economic globalization in the right direction.
Looking ahead, it is essential to fully and faithfully apply the new development philosophy on all fronts, accelerate efforts to create a new development pattern, and make solid headway in promoting high-quality development, Xi said, calling for further efforts to build a community with a shared future for humanity and add more positive energy to world peace and development.
Xi also highlighted Jiang's extraordinary courage and vision.
Jiang made resolute decisions at key historical junctures and critical moments, and responded calmly to risks and challenges, securing the steady advancement of China's reform and opening up as well as socialist modernization, Xi said.
In particular, Jiang led China to successfully withstand the impact of the Asian financial crisis and secure the complete victory in the battle against the severe floods in 1998, Xi noted.
"On the new journey, we should stand ready to withstand high winds, choppy waters, and even dangerous storms, resolutely safeguard national sovereignty, security, and development interests, and continue to write a new chapter in the miracles of fast economic growth and long-term social stability," Xi said.
Party and state leaders Xi Jinping, Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi, and Han Zheng attend a grand gathering to commemorate the birth centenary of late leader Jiang Zemin at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 17, 2026. [Xinhua/Xie Huanchi]
A grand gathering is held to commemorate the birth centenary of late leader Jiang Zemin at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 17, 2026. [Xinhua/Yue Yuewei]
A grand gathering is held to commemorate the birth centenary of late leader Jiang Zemin at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, capital of China, Aug. 17, 2026. [Xinhua/Li Xiang]