TITLE:
Xi's article on advancing basic research to be published

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-15

SOURCE:
Qiushi English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://en.qstheory.cn/2026-09/15/c_1213680.htm

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi's article on advancing basic research to be published
BEIJING -- An article by Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on strengthening basic research will be published on Wednesday.
The article by Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, will be published in this year's 18th issue of the Qiushi Journal, a flagship magazine of the CPC Central Committee.
Noting that basic research is the bedrock of the entire scientific system and a frontier area of global sci-tech competition, the article emphasizes further efforts to develop the country's basic research to build China into a leading country in science and technology.
Compared with global leaders in science and technology, China still lags behind in basic research, the article says, calling for stronger efforts and more concrete measures to strengthen basic research, enhance the country's capacity for original innovation, and accelerate efforts toward greater self-reliance and strength in science and technology.
The layout of basic research should be optimized, with the main directions and priority areas for basic research further clarified based on the country's urgent and long-term needs, the article says.
It also underscores the importance of promoting coordinated development of applied disciplines and basic disciplines, while encouraging integration among different disciplines and interdisciplinary research.
The article calls for efforts to expand the basic research talent pool and provide greater support for young talent.
It also stresses the importance of inspiring the imagination and curiosity of young people, so that more of them will regard pursuing basic research as a lifelong aspiration.
On ramping up support for basic research, the article calls for gradually raising the proportion of funding for basic research while strengthening the systematic development of major scientific and technological infrastructure.
Attention should also be paid to AI-empowered basic research and the development of a system of intelligent research platforms, it adds.
The article also urges the country's active integration into the global innovation network, boosting original innovation capacity through openness and cooperation.
It also emphasizes the need to further open up national science and technology programs, take the lead in initiating and participating in international big science programs and projects, and take an active part in global scientific and technological governance.