TITLE:
A picture paints a thousand words

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/11/WS6aa33c73e4b06d4aa055d6d5.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A single image can bridge centuries and continents. That vision came to life on Saturday at Photo Beijing 2026, where photographers, artists, scholars, and industry professionals from China and abroad gathered at the China Millennium Monument in Beijing, not simply to display photographs, but to spark conversations about where the medium has been and where it is heading.
The annual event is jointly organized by the China Artistic Photography Society, the China Photographers Association, the China News Photography Society and Capital Culture Technology Group.
This year's theme, "The Image: Resonance, Insight", explores the dual role of photography in the age of artificial intelligence: as a medium for emotional resonance and as a critical lens for examining machine-driven visual transformation.
In his keynote address, Yang Yuanxing, founder of the event and chairman of the organizing committee, said this year's edition focuses on the theme of "Resonance and Insight". "Resonance" refers to the ability of photography to connect individual experience with public emotion, allowing visual media to generate social resonance and foster a sense of collective identity.
"Insight", meanwhile, calls for closer examination of visual transformation in the age of AI, raising critical questions about photographic authenticity, authorship, and public responsibility.
"The goal is to use the power of images to build consensus while safeguarding the value of photography amid technological shifts, and to explore innovative pathways for Chinese visual culture to engage with the world," he says.
Organized around this theme, this year's event comprises five major clusters: contemporary narratives, photographic history, heritage continuity, artistic practice, and industry ecosystem. More than 20 exhibitions, symposiums and other activities are being held through Sunday.
Among the notable exhibitions, Through the Lens of Photographic History — Classic Works from the Collection of the Hungarian Museum of Photography showcases more than 100 high-quality reproductions from the Hungarian museum, most of which are being shown in China for the first time.
Hungary occupies a unique place in the history of world photography and has nurtured many pioneering photographers who helped shape the art form in the 20th century. The exhibition uses a selection of landmark works to trace the development of Hungarian photography, says Zhao Yingxin, the Chinese curator of the display.
Through these works, visitors can see how the visual language of modern photography emerged, broke new ground, and continued to evolve. The exhibition, therefore, provides a rare point of reference for the study of global photographic history in China, Zhao adds.
"Photography is a universal language that needs no translation. A single photograph transcends geography and language, enabling mutual observation and dialogue between different civilizations," said Peter Baki, director of the Hungarian Museum of Photography, at the opening ceremony of the exhibition on Saturday.
"The exhibition not only reviews the history of Hungarian photography, but also represents a cultural dialogue between China and Hungary bonded by the power of imagery," he added.
Another highlight is a photographic exhibition devoted to ancient Chinese architecture, featuring works by participants of all ages from 31 provinces, autonomous regions and municipalities.
The photographs span palaces, temples, and rural dwellings, capturing everything from sweeping panoramic views to intricate architectural details, and from buildings in their natural surroundings to the efforts to protect and restore them.
"We hope that through these images, more people can come to see both the form and spirit of ancient Chinese architecture, appreciate its craftsmanship and construction wisdom, and feel the history and emotional memories embedded within. Together, we invite people to cherish and safeguard the precious cultural heritage," says Su Tangshi, curator of the exhibition.
Initiated in 2013, the annual event has grown into a professional and influential cultural platform. To date, it has hosted more than 530 thematic exhibitions and over 260 academic dialogues, bringing together photographers and institutions from nearly 100 countries and regions worldwide.