TITLE:
Autumn harvest underway after record summer crop

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-30

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/30/WS6abc5f4ee4b06d4aa0560ecc.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Autumn harvest underway after record summer crop
Strong yields come as nation seeks to buffer food security amid intl volatility
China's summer grain output topped 150 million metric tons for the first time this year, while the autumn grain harvest is underway and the full-year crop is on track for another bumper harvest, Agriculture and Rural Affairs Minister Zhang Zhu said on Tuesday.
With early rice production remaining above 28 million tons for six consecutive years, attention is now turning to autumn grain, which accounts for about three-quarters of the country's annual grain output, Zhang said.
More than 20 percent of the autumn grain area has already been harvested, while the planted area is expected to remain stable or increase slightly from last year. Corn, a major feed grain, has seen a particularly notable increase in planted area, Zhang said.
"If weather conditions remain generally normal in the later stages, we are likely to see another bumper harvest," Zhang said.
China has experienced more flooding than drought this year, although the impacts have generally been more severe in localized areas. Overall, weather conditions have been favorable for agricultural production, he said.
The strong harvest comes as global grain markets face greater volatility and China seeks to strengthen food security during the 15th Five-Year Plan period (2026-30).
Grain supply and demand will remain "tightly balanced" during the period, Zhang said.
While consumption of staple grains such as rice and wheat is declining, rising demand for meat, eggs and dairy products is increasing demand for feed grains such as corn and soybeans, he added.
"Overall grain demand will continue to rise, and the string of food security should always be tightly wound," he said.
China also needs to adjust the structure of its grain supply, Zhang said, noting that the country still relies heavily on imported soybeans for edible oil and animal feed.
At the same time, supplies of high-quality grain products need to increase. These include specialized strong- and weak-gluten wheat used to make bread and cakes, as well as better-tasting premium rice varieties.
The ministry will implement a new round of measures to raise grain production capacity, targeting about 725 million tons by the end of the 15th Five-Year Plan period.
"Increasing yields is the key to these measures," Zhang said. Yield increases accounted for more than 60 percent of grain production growth during the 14th Five-Year Plan period and more than 90 percent last year.
The ministry will promote the integrated use of better farmland, improved seeds, machinery and farming practices to raise yields across larger areas, Zhang said.
It will also optimize the mix of agricultural products, maintaining stable staple grain output while increasing corn and soybean production and expanding sources of edible oils.
Beyond cropland, China plans to diversify its food supply as consumer diets change, Chen Bangxun, a ministry spokesman, said.
Modern greenhouses can annually produce five to eight times as many vegetables per hectare as open fields.
The ministry will expand efficient greenhouse farming to make food supplies less dependent on seasons and weather.
"China will also make greater use of rivers, lakes and oceans," Chen said. Large and smart deep-sea aquaculture cages can produce up to 1,000 tons of large yellow croaker a year, providing high-quality aquatic products.
The country will also explore synthetic biology to develop new protein sources and food products, he added.
zhaoyimeng@chinadaily.com.cn