TITLE:
Be model patriots, youth urged

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-22

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/22/WS6ab1d257e4b06d4aa055f608.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Be model patriots, youth urged
Students from Hong Kong and Macao experience Beijing firsthand
Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang has called on young people from Hong Kong and Macao to uphold the dignity of the national flag and strive to become model patriots in the new era.
Ding made the remarks on Monday when he received a delegation of nearly 1,200 people from the two special administrative regions at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing.
The delegation is visiting Beijing from Friday to Tuesday under the "Salute the National Flag" program. It comprises flag-raising team representatives from 121 primary and secondary schools and 21 universities in Hong Kong and Macao, as well as about 200 officials from relevant government departments, principals, teachers and staff members from schools and universities.
Ding said Hong Kong and Macao are enjoying the best period of development in their history. He expressed the hope that young people would deepen their understanding of the national flag, cultivate a deep love for the motherland and put that love into action.
He called on them to uphold the dignity of the national flag and strive to become model patriots in the new era who love the country as well as Hong Kong and Macao. He also encouraged them to bring honor to the flag and live fulfilling lives with the passion and vitality of youth.
Ding urged the young people from the two special administrative regions to become builders and successors of the cause of "one country, two systems".
During their visit, the delegates attended the national flag-raising ceremony at Tian'anmen Square and visited the Great Hall of the People, the Palace Museum and the National Museum of China. They also toured the People's Liberation Army guards of honor base for a study session.
The delegation was divided into six groups to visit primary and secondary schools and universities in Beijing. They also took part in dedicated study visits to cultural, science and technology venues, enterprises and rural communities, among other sites.
Kuang Chun-wan, a student at Pui Kiu Middle School in Hong Kong, said he was deeply moved and excited after witnessing the national flag-raising ceremony.
"The most impressive and exciting thing for me was singing the national anthem together with our compatriots from Hong Kong and Macao, as well as mainland compatriots in the audience. It made me feel the unity of the Chinese nation and the inseparable bond between the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong," he said.
Leong Hoi-cheng, a student at Fong Chong School of Taipa in Macao, said she was also excited about the experience.
"It's my first time in Beijing and my first time attending the national flag-raising ceremony at Tian'anmen Square. It is nothing like watching it back at school. Seeing our national flag rise slowly in the capital is something to be proud of," she said.
Contact the writers at lihongyang@chinadaily.com.cn