TITLE:
Beijing right in your palm

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-14

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/14/WS6aa72db6e4b06d4aa055dce0.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
A robot rock band jammed as onlookers snapped photos, and an AI photo booth dressed visitors in traditional Chinese costumes, while AR glasses translated conversations in real time. And a new platform promises to put all of Beijing — visas, subways, shops, temples, and hidden hutong alleyways — in the palm of your hand.
This was the scene at Beijing's Shougang Park last week, as the World Conference on Tourism Cooperation and Development 2026 drew representatives from over 50 countries and regions, dozens of cities, international organizations, and cross-border travel companies for a three-day event themed "Smart Tourism, Shared Prosperity".
The event's sixth edition, hosted by the World Tourism Cities Federation and co-organized by the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Culture and Tourism, concluded on Friday. The event was part of the 2026 China International Fair for Trade in Services.
Expanding outreach
A highlight was the launch of China Bound·Beijing, an English-language cultural tourism platform rolled out by China Daily in cooperation with the Beijing Municipal Bureau of Culture and Tourism. It includes a website (chinabound.cn/beijing) and dedicated pages on China Bound's Alipay and WeChat mini-programs, offering everything from itinerary planning to inspiring destination profiles and AI-powered field assistance.
Zheng Fang, deputy director of the Beijing culture and tourism bureau, describes it as a one-stop gateway for overseas visitors.
"Through this platform, we hope to provide our overseas audiences with authoritative, firsthand information and updates about Beijing tourism," Zheng says.
"The platform also provides a wide range of information about visas, transportation, shopping, scenic attractions, events, and other aspects of Beijing travel. We hope this will help international visitors plan their trips before coming to Beijing and provide them with comprehensive support throughout the process," she explains.
"It's an important step in Beijing's efforts to expand its communications and outreach to international markets actively. We hope our friends overseas will find this platform useful, and that we earn the love and support of visitors from around the world."
Joseph Daniel Lema, a professor at the College of Hospitality, the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, hails the platform's potential.
"This makes travel easier and more accessible. It saves people time and inconvenience. I think it's going to be a real boon for the future," he says.
"It's going to help tell the narrative of Beijing. This is a very ancient, historic city, so there's lots to talk about here; there's lots to learn. This app is going to help do that."
Lema notes that the China Bound. Beijing release builds on a broader application introduced earlier this year.
What excites him most, he says, is how the platform connects the dots of a traveler's journey — from the moment of inspiration to the final transaction.
"Connecting a lot of the services has been a challenge for tourism for a long time. How do we connect everything from transportation to entry to exit, from food and beverage to events and entertainment? This app will be very valuable for a seamless experience," Lema says.
He believes its timing is significant.
"This is what the new generations coming up want. They're on their phones, and they want a seamless experience … people want to learn, and this is another channel to bring that all together."
It'll help Beijing show its true self to the world, Lema says.
"It's going to be a good asset for Beijing, and it also introduces the latest technologies," he says.
"Many people don't realize how advanced the technology is here. China Bound is bringing everything together, from initial curiosity and travel searches to deciding where to go, and managing the experience while you're here, then following up and satisfaction, and so on. These apps can have the capabilities to do all of that."