TITLE:
Businesses look to Sino-US trade talks

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-21

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/21/WS6ab06447e4b06d4aa055f1ae.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Businesses look to Sino-US trade talks
A new round of China-United States economic and trade talks in the US has raised expectations among US businesses and industry groups of further progress in bilateral commercial ties and greater certainty for companies operating across the two markets.
Jim Sutter, CEO of the US Soybean Export Council, said he is optimistic about the prospects of US-China economic and trade relations, adding that the US soybean industry looks forward to more positive developments.
Sutter said agricultural trade, particularly in soybeans, has long served as a ballast in the relationship between the two countries, and that role has not changed despite previous challenges. US farmers have long valued China as an important trading partner and their largest overseas market, he added.
"The USSEC values open and free trade. Predictable market access leads to smoother trade flows that benefit both sides," he said. "The US' soy relationship with China is structural and foundational, not cyclical — the mutual benefit is clear, proven and enduring."
Also expressing confidence in the Chinese market, Liliana Lucioni, president of Coach China, said the US fashion company sees considerable room to further expand its presence in China, where it currently operates more than 350 stores in over 90 cities.
Tapestry Inc, Coach's parent company, announced last month that it had posted record global revenue of $8 billion in its 2026 fiscal year, with China accounting for about 17 percent of the total. Revenue in China grew more than 30 percent for the full year, making the country one of the company's largest and fastest-growing markets.
Chinese Vice-Premier He Lifeng, who is also a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, is leading a Chinese delegation to the US for economic and trade talks with the US from Saturday to Wednesday, according to the Ministry of Commerce.
The two sides are holding consultations on economic and trade issues of mutual concern, guided by the important consensus reached by the two heads of state.
Robin Xing, chief China economist at Morgan Stanley, said greater strategic stability between China and the US would benefit both economies.
"While the two sides may continue to have divergent interests and priorities in certain situations and sensitive areas, competition is normal. But reaching consensus on the broader global development agenda and establishing a relatively stable strategic environment would be more beneficial to both sides," Xing said at an economic forum in Beijing on Saturday.
"Whether China wants to boost domestic demand and achieve more balanced economic growth, or the US wants to address the sustainability of its debt, both require relatively stable and moderate bilateral relations to achieve these goals," he added.