TITLE:
Changchun begins games countdown

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-07

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202610/07/WS6ac65e95e4b06d4aa05618e3.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Changchun begins games countdown
The torch, medals, promotional songs and official uniforms for the Changchun 2027 Winter Universiade were unveiled on Wednesday, which marked the 100-day countdown to the games.
The games, featuring 97 events of 12 sports, will be held from Jan 15 to 25, 2027, in Changchun and Jilin cities of Jilin province.
The name of the torch is "Ji Xiang", with "Ji" standing for Jilin province and also implying good fortune, and "Xiang" meaning to soar, said Guo Chunfang, dean of the Art College of Jilin University and one of the chief designers of the torch.
The torch is 711 millimeters in height, referencing Changchun's highest-elevation landmark, which stands at 711 meters above sea level, he said.
Its material distinguishes it from previous torches. The upper section is made of alloy, and the lower section uses carbon-fiber material independently developed in Jilin province. This carbon-fiber material is lightweight, safe and resistant to high temperatures, he said.
Instead of simply pasting urban cultural symbols onto the surface, the designers have integrated local themes into the torch. Twelve film-themed icons represent the 12 sports of the Changchun games, and pay tribute to Changchun's status as a film city, Guo said.
The side profile draws inspiration from a snowboard. On the top, patterns of clivia — Changchun's city flower — and snowflakes are stylized into the image of young people embracing each other, embodying the spirit of the games. At the bottom, an automobile carving celebrates Changchun's reputation as an automotive city, he said.
The medal, named "Ji Meng", or "auspicious dreams", continues the "Ji" theme and echoes the games' slogan of "Dreams Ignited, Youth United", according to the organizing committee.
The front of the medal is inspired by traces of ice skates and snowboards gliding over ice and snow, while the back features the "first jade bird of ancient China", a Neolithic jade artifact from 7,000 years ago, the committee said.
A chip embedded in the medal allows athletes to view images of their medal-ceremony moments and Changchun's scenery across the four seasons with a tap of a smartphone, it said.
Two promotional songs and six series of official uniforms for the games were also released.
Zhang Enhui, secretary of the Communist Party of China Changchun Municipal Committee, extended a sincere invitation to guests from across the globe. Located at a latitude of 43 degrees north in a golden ice-and-snow belt, Changchun has a snow season lasting up to four months and powdery snow.
Having hosted the Asian Winter Games and the National Winter Games, the city has ice and snow in its DNA, with winter sports deeply woven into daily life, he added.
Changchun has now entered "Universiade time", Zhang said. From the construction of venues and urban upgrading to service improvements, residents are fully prepared and eager to welcome visitors from around the world, he added.