TITLE:
China opposes Japan's joint military exercise

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-15

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/15/WS6aa87329e4b06d4aa055dfa2.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China opposes Japan's joint military exercise
A Chinese Defense Ministry spokesman on Monday voiced opposition to a joint military exercise involving Japan, the United States and Australia, as well as Japan's forward deployment of long-range offensive weapons, saying such moves increase the risk of military confrontation in the region.
Jiang Bin, spokesman for the Ministry of National Defense, made the remarks in response to reports that Japan's Ground Self-Defense Force is conducting a joint exercise, dubbed "Oriental Shield 26", with the US and Australian armies in Hokkaido and Kagoshima from Sept 8 to 24.
The US Typhon mid-range missile system will participate in the exercise for the first time, according to reports, raising concerns among countries in the region.
Jiang said the exercise is being used to advance the deployment of long-range offensive weapons under the guise of a "shield", undermining the security interests of other countries and increasing the risk of an arms race and military confrontation in the region, thereby posing a serious threat to regional peace and stability.
"We firmly oppose this," Jiang said.
On Aug 31, Russia lodged a protest with the Japanese embassy in Russia over the joint military exercise.
Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said on Sept 1 that deploying such weapons on Japanese territory, including under the pretext of military exercises, would threaten Russia's security and was "absolutely unacceptable" to Moscow. Russia would take countermeasures to ensure its national defense and security, she said.
China has also repeatedly expressed opposition to the deployment of US mid-range missile systems in Asian countries.
Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Guo Jiakun said at a news conference in May that China firmly opposes such deployments and has repeatedly expressed its concerns over the issue.
The Typhon missile system is a strategically offensive weapon that undermines the legitimate security interests of other countries, threatens regional strategic security and increases the risk of military confrontation and an arms race, Guo said.
"It does nothing to promote regional peace and stability and is detrimental in every respect," Guo said.
Jiang also pointed out that Japan has repeatedly breached the principles of its pacifist constitution and its exclusively defense-oriented policy by developing long-range offensive weapons and stepping up its military activities overseas.
He criticized Japan's military expansion as moving toward a new form of militarism, saying it caters to the interests of countries outside the region while encouraging bloc confrontation and increasing tensions.
"Any move that fuels Japan's military ambitions will only plunge the region into a dangerous vortex and will eventually bring harm to the country itself," Jiang said.
He urged the countries concerned to respect the security concerns of other countries, correct their erroneous practices and contribute positively to regional peace and stability through concrete actions.
lishangyi@chinadaily.com.cn