TITLE:
China-Russia energy ties highlighted

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-05

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/05/WS6a9af254e4b06d4aa055c739.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China-Russia energy ties highlighted
Xi, Putin encourage more collaboration in congratulatory messages to forum
President Xi Jinping has expressed China's readiness to deepen energy cooperation with Russia and make joint efforts to keep the industrial and supply chains in the energy sector stable and unimpeded.
He made the remarks on Friday in a congratulatory letter sent to the 8th China-Russia Energy Business Forum, which was held in Vladivostok, Russia.
In the message, Xi noted that this year marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of the China-Russia strategic partnership of coordination and the 25th anniversary of the signing of the China-Russia Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation.
He said that amid a complex and evolving international landscape, the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era has maintained high-level development. The fruitful energy collaboration has promoted the common development of both countries, becoming a model of mutually beneficial cooperation, he added.
Emphasizing that the global energy landscape is undergoing profound adjustments, with opportunities and challenges intertwined, Xi said that China stands ready to work with Russia to continuously deepen energy cooperation and jointly safeguard the stability of industrial and supply chains in the sector.
Russian President Vladimir Putin also sent a congratulatory message to the forum, highlighting that energy has traditionally been one of the most important and dynamic areas of economic cooperation between Russia and China.
Russia firmly holds the top position among suppliers of oil and natural gas to China and is also a leading exporter of coal and liquefied natural gas to the country, according to a statement published on the official website of the president of Russia.
"The construction of several Russian-designed nuclear power units in China is nearing successful completion. Joint technological innovations are also being developed to improve the efficiency and environmental safety of hydrocarbon production, processing and trans-portation," Putin said.
He expressed hope that the forum will be substantive and productive, and that the ideas and initiatives the participants put forward will be translated into practical actions.
Amid continued volatility in global energy markets, China and Russia are accelerating the structural deepening of their energy partnership, anchored by stable fossil-fuel supply chains, while simultaneously breaking ground in next-generation clean-energy corridors.
Pipeline cooperation remains central to their cooperative relationship. Also, one of the most closely watched developments came in April this year, when Chinese and Russian companies signed cooperation agreements related to a proposed cross-border hydrogen freight corridor.
On Friday, Vice-Premier Ding Xuexiang and Russian Deputy Prime Minister Alexander Novak co-chaired the 23rd meeting of the China-Russia Energy Cooperation Committee in Vladivostok.
Ding highlighted the steady growth of energy trade between the two countries, saying that major landmark cooperation projects have progressed smoothly and new advancements have been made in clean energy cooperation.
Ding emphasized the importance of jointly advancing the transformation of the global energy governance system and making greater contributions to energy security and sustainable development for both countries and the world.
Novak highlighted the important role of strategic guidance of the two heads of state in the growth of bilateral trade and in maintaining the stability of the energy supply chain. He said that Russia is willing to work with China to optimize existing cooperation projects, expand and plan new areas of cooperation for the next phase, and make new contributions to deepening pragmatic cooperation.
caodesheng@chinadaily.com.cn