TITLE:
Cross-Strait trade defies political friction

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-29

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/29/WS6abb0e07e4b06d4aa0560adf.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Cross-Strait trade defies political friction
Mainland welcomes back pomelos from Taiwan as economic exchanges soar
Editor's note: The Taiwan question is a key focus for China and the international community. China Daily is publishing a series of reports to track hot Taiwan-related topics and address disinformation from the Democratic Progressive Party administration.
Despite the repeated smearing of the Chinese mainland's economic goodwill by Taiwan's Democratic Progressive Party authorities, the mainland continues to promote cross-Strait trade and investment, bringing Taiwan's Wendan pomelos — a seasonal delicacy from Taiwan fruit growers — into mainland households this holiday season.
On Sept 22, ahead of the Mid-Autumn and National Day holidays, an event featuring over a dozen booths in Shenzhen, Guangdong province, brought together people from both sides of the Taiwan Strait to taste the pomelos from Taiwan — famous for their thin skins, intense sweetness, juicy flesh and delicate fragrance.
Hsu Fu-hsien, president of the Taiwan Merchant Association in Shenzhen, said that preferential policies from the Chinese mainland side have allowed premium fruits from Taiwan to arrive fresh via direct sales.
In 2022, the General Administration of Customs suspended imports of Taiwan citrus fruits, including pomelos, to prevent the entry of harmful pests and excessive pesticide residues.
Thanks to the active efforts of local authorities and farmers in Taiwan counties including Hualien, pest-control and quality rectifications were implemented.
As a result, the mainland resumed imports from qualified, registered orchards and packaging plants in 2024, further expanding the market entry in August.
"A tiny pomelo is a miniature of cross-Strait economic exchange, and a testament to the shared hearts of the people," Hsu said.
Sharing this sentiment, Roy Wang, a Taiwan businessman who has worked in Shenzhen for nine years, said, "Eating pomelos from my hometown brings a true taste of home, and I hope people here in Shenzhen can enjoy this flavor."
This improved market access stems from solid policy support. Following 10 exchange-promoting measures released by the mainland on April 12, joint cross-Strait efforts based on the 1992 Consensus and opposition to "Taiwan independence" separatism have widened the mainland market for Taiwan's agricultural and fishery products.
Consequently, multiple Taiwan pomelo orchards, packing plants and food enterprises have registered on the mainland. Backed by fast customs clearance and efficient logistics, the fruit has debuted at several mainland exhibitions and is being sold in supermarkets and on e-commerce platforms.
This progress was reflected in June at the Straits Forum, a major annual cross-Strait exchange event held in Xiamen, Fujian province, where mainland buyers signed procurement agreements with Taiwan enterprises and associations, covering products such as pineapple custard apples and tea.
According to Taiwan's agricultural authorities, while the island's shipments to the United States and Japan fell in the first half of this year, its agricultural exports to the mainland rose 11.3 percent.
Tang Hua, an associate professor of cross-Strait relations at Xiamen University, said the mainland is the closest, largest and most stable market for Taiwan's agricultural products. Its short distance ensures fast shipping, while a vast consumer market provides stable, predictable sales channels, she said.
Extensive policy support covering land, financing, sales, branding and logistics greatly reduces operational costs and expands market channels for Taiwan's farmers and small businesses, she said.
Attending the pomelo promotion event in Shenzhen, Peng Qing'en, deputy director of the State Council Taiwan Affairs Office, said that both sides share close geographical, kinship and cultural ties, and the mainland remains a vital market for Taiwan agricultural enterprises to expand.
As the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30) progresses, industrial upgrading and domestic market expansion will continue to release development dividends, Peng said, welcoming more Taiwan businesses to seize the opportunities and integrate into the mainland market.