TITLE:
Equal, orderly multipolar world urged

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-02

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/02/WS6a97027ae4b06d4aa055bc68.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Equal, orderly multipolar world urged
President Xi Jinping called on Tuesday for joint efforts to advance an equal and orderly multipolar world and make global governance more just and equitable, saying that Global South countries should have greater representation and a stronger voice in international affairs.
Xi made the remarks at the Shanghai Cooperation Organization Plus Meeting in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, which focused on strengthening the role of the United Nations and building a multipolar world.
Against the backdrop of accelerating changes unseen in a century, Xi said that hegemonism, unilateralism and protectionism are resurging against historical trends. Nevertheless, the overwhelming majority of the world does not condone power politics, conflict and confrontation, or isolation and backwardness, he said, adding that what most people want instead is to hold a place on the world stage through national development and international cooperation.
Noting that the rise of the Global South is driving a profound shift in the international balance of power, Xi said that the trend toward a multipolar world is irreversible.
"As a responsible major country, China advocates for an equal and orderly multipolar world," he said.
The Chinese president identified sovereign equality and mutual respect as fundamental principles, balance, order and the rule of law as inherent requirements, multilateralism, dialogue and consultation as essential pathways, and mutual benefit, win-win cooperation and inclusiveness as the way forward for development.
"We should ensure equal rights, equal opportunities and equal rules for all countries, regardless of their size, strength and wealth," Xi said.
The common values of humanity should be upheld, while double standards, exceptionalism, foreign interference, bullying and the law of the jungle should be rejected, he said.
He added that major countries, in particular, should "take the lead in observing international norms and honoring the rule of law", and work together to tackle global challenges.
"World affairs should be discussed by all, and international norms should be set by all. The authority and vitality of the UN need to be restored," Xi said.
He also called for focusing on the development agenda, upholding openness and cooperation, and bridging the digital and artificial intelligence divides, so that the technological revolution and development achievements can benefit all nations.
Xi said that after a 25-year journey, the SCO has successfully set a stellar example in conducting relations among big countries, among neighbors and among countries of different sizes.
To advance common prosperity in the vast region straddling Asia and Europe, Xi called for harnessing "SCO Strength" and connecting multiple growth poles across the continent through high-quality Belt and Road cooperation.
Xi also called on the SCO to promote the development and rise of the Global South through "SCO Wisdom", urging all sides to carry forward the Shanghai Spirit and strengthen and expand the SCO Plus partnerships. He said that "SCO Action" should guide the reform and improvement of global governance.
Tuesday's meeting came exactly one year after Xi proposed the Global Governance Initiative at the SCO Plus Meeting in Tianjin. The initiative has since received support from nearly 160 countries and international organizations, while more than 60 countries have joined the Group of Friends of Global Governance.
Li Yonghui, a researcher at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences' Institute of Russian, Eastern European and Central Asian Studies, said that the rise of the Global South and emerging economies is accelerating the shift toward a multipolar world. Li said that the SCO provides a practical example of cooperation among countries with different social systems and at different stages of development.
zhaojia@chinadaily.com.cn