TITLE:
Evacuated residents returning home after Gyirong mudslide

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/09/WS6aa0c1c6e4b06d4aa055d169.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Evacuated residents returning home after mudslide hits border port in China's Xizang
GYIRONG, Xizang -- A total of 444 residents evacuated from nearby villages in Gyirong town, Southwest China's Xizang autonomous region, have safely returned home after the threat from a barrier lake was largely eliminated.
The latest group to return consisted of 180 residents of Guoba village in Sale township, who departed for home at around 6 pm Monday. The 444 returnees come from one village in Gyirong town and three villages in Sale township. Another 55 residents from a separate village in Gyirong town are preparing to return.
The evacuation was prompted by a fast-moving chain mudslide triggered by a high-altitude glacier collapse in Nepal on Aug 26. The mudslide created a barrier lake above the core area of Gyirong Port on the China-Nepal border, posing a serious threat to nearby villages. Local authorities relocated 499 residents from five villages in Gyirong town and Sale township to a temporary shelter.
"We were well taken care of at the shelter, but I kept thinking about the livestock and crops back home," said Phurjung, a resident of Guoba village.
Over the past several days, experts have conducted ongoing safety inspections and hydrological monitoring. The barrier lake above the main area of Gyirong Port has been drained, the river has resumed normal flow, and the risk has been largely removed.
Local authorities checked the safety of houses and roads before arranging vehicles to transport residents home in batches. Upon returning to their villages, residents received food and other daily necessities delivered door to door by local officials.
During the evacuation, local officials and village workers helped care for livestock, poultry and crops, and regularly shared video updates of the villages with residents at the shelter.