TITLE:
High-tech methods refine border checkpoint work

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-17

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/17/WS6aab3b95e4b06d4aa055e785.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
High-tech methods refine border checkpoint work
Inspections at crucial Yunnan entry point supported by big data analysis, integrated systems
One morning in late August, Gao Yanping set off on a 40-minute drive through rugged mountains in Yunnan province to reach the Mukang border checkpoint and carry out his duties as a border police officer.
Located at a mountain pass between Mangshi, the capital of Dehong Dai and Jingpo autonomous prefecture, and Longling county in Baoshan, the border checkpoint is part of the Dehong Border Management Detachment under the Yunnan Entry-Exit Border Inspection General Station.
Upon arriving at the checkpoint, Gao was greeted by a steady drizzle and a sharp drop in temperature. Downtown Mangshi was basking in bright sunshine and experiencing soaring temperatures when he had left.
Situated at an altitude of over 1,600 meters, the border checkpoint is perched on a hilltop, with mountain ranges rising majestically on either side. The area is usually hit by six months of relentless rain followed by six months of biting winds and frost, making the conditions extremely harsh.
Gao worked at the checkpoint for 12 years until 2019 and in May decided to return to his old post.
Reunited with past
Gao, 37, started working at the checkpoint in 2007. In those early years, he would bend down multiple times to inspect under vehicles and often dealt with more than 1 metric ton of cargo a day. Work shifts sometimes stretched up to 10 hours.
Located less than 100 kilometers from the notorious Golden Triangle, one of the world's largest illicit drug-producing regions, the checkpoint is tasked with inspecting the flow of people, vehicles, and goods across the region, playing a vital role in combating illegal activities such as border crossings, smuggling, and drug and firearm trafficking.
"Before Mangshi opened its first expressway in 2015, all vehicles entering and exiting Dehong had to pass through the Mukang border checkpoint," Gao said. "This posed a significant mental and physical challenge for the officers on duty."
For instance, if a truck transporting watermelons was suspected of carrying concealed drugs or other contraband, Gao would have to unload tons of melons. He would then closely inspect them before reloading them onto the truck, all the while ensuring the fruit remained undamaged. The process typically took several hours.