TITLE:
Insights offered to push for steady ties: China Daily editorial

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-25

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/25/WS6ab688bde4b06d4aa0560439.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Insights offered to push for steady ties: China Daily editorial
Like his address on his arrival at the White House on Thursday morning, President Xi Jinping's speech at the state dinner hosted by US President Donald Trump on Thursday evening was rich in substance and offered important insights into the steady development of China-US relations.
Taken together they reveal the principles, perspectives and wisdom embedded in China's approach to Sino-US ties.
In his speech upon arrival at the White House, Xi called for strengthened communication, exchanges and cooperation across various sectors, emphasizing peaceful coexistence.
In his state dinner address, Xi recalled historic moments in China-US interactions spanning more than two centuries, saying that a friendship forged in blood and fire will surely live on through the generations.
This legacy of friendship reflects not only the foresight of statesmen of the two countries and the shared aspirations of the two peoples for a better life, but also the two sides' commitment to peace and justice.
This, in part, explains why US people's views of China have warmed since 2022, according to a recent Pew Research Center survey.
The improvement underscores the value of China's efforts to foster a more objective and rational understanding of China among US people.
The bedrock of the Sino-US relationship has always been the people. By upholding a commitment to people-to-people exchanges, the two sides can strengthen communication and cooperation and fortify trust.
The invitation Xi sent to 100,000 young Americans to visit China for study and exchanges over the next five years embodies precisely this long-term vision. By encouraging mutual understanding among younger generations, China is looking beyond the immediate differences to the future.
The remarks of Xi are therefore an expression of the sense of responsibility expected of a reliable partner and a manifestation of the recognition of both sides that the "giant ship" of China-US relations needs steady hands on the helm to weather the storms and sail steadily toward a brighter horizon.
Time will demonstrate that China is a reliable partner that embraces competition with an open mind and seeks to resolve differences through dialogue and consultation.
China's approach reflects its long-term vision and confidence in the future of Sino-US relations. It creates the space and time needed for both sides to manage differences constructively.
On his part, Trump said in his meeting with Xi that US-China relations will surely be handled well under the leadership of the two heads of state.
Xi's visit will help translate the vision for a constructive China-US relationship of strategic stability into actions, providing fresh strategic guidance for steering bilateral ties toward stability.