TITLE:
Leaders pay homage to fallen heroes on Martyrs' Day

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-01

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202610/01/WS6abd968be4b06d4aa0561162.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Leaders pay homage to fallen heroes on Martyrs' Day
President Xi Jinping and other Party and State leaders attended a ceremony on Wednesday at Tian'anmen Square in central Beijing to present flower baskets to honor fallen national heroes, marking China's 13th Martyrs' Day.
Established in 2014 and observed annually on Sept 30, one day before National Day, the day honors those who gave their lives for the liberation of the Chinese people and the nation's development.
Since the first observance of Martyrs' Day, Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, has maintained the tradition of paying homage to fallen heroes on this day.
On Wednesday morning, Xi and other leaders — Li Qiang, Zhao Leji, Wang Huning, Cai Qi, Ding Xuexiang, Li Xi and Han Zheng — joined representatives from all walks of life for the solemn ceremony in front of the Monument to the People's Heroes.
At 10 am, all attendees sang the national anthem, followed by a moment of silence in tribute to the fallen heroes.
Nine large flower baskets were placed in front of the monument. Xi and other leaders walked up to the foot of the monument, where he straightened the ribbons on the baskets. Then, they walked around the monument to pay tribute.
Among the attendees carrying flowers were veterans, relatives of martyrs, recipients of awards and honorary titles, members of ethnic minority groups, students and children.
Liu Jia, an associate professor at Beihang University's School of Marxism, watched the live broadcast of the ceremony. He said that observing Martyrs' Day is not only a solemn tribute to fallen heroes, but also a reminder of the hardships and unwavering convictions forged during China's revolutionary struggles.
Liu noted that the commemoration came at a key moment, citing that this year marks the 105th anniversary of the founding of the CPC, the 90th anniversary of the victory of the Long March — an epic military trek from 1934 to 1936 that helped lay the foundation for the eventual victory of the Chinese revolution — and the launch of the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30) for economic and social development.
He said that the strength we gain from the Party's glorious history and the Long March will help drive new sci-tech progress today and inspire the younger generation.
jihaisheng@chinadaily.com.cn