TITLE:
Legacy of flying tigers lives on

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-24

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/24/WS6ab47c56e4b06d4aa055feb8.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Legacy of flying tigers lives on
Descendants of US veterans, young generations see value in cooperation, need for deeper ties across the Pacific
For those living Flying Tigers — a group of volunteer US pilots who came to China as early as 1941 to help fight against the invading Japanese troops — traveling back to China for this year's events marking the 85th anniversary of their great deeds is demanding due to their advanced age.
Yet some still delivered video messages to remind China and the world how the US service members fought alongside the Chinese people, forging lasting bonds.
"I am Captain Harry Moyer, Air Force Flying Tiger. I was born in Akron, Ohio."
Moyer, who turns 106 in October, made the remarks in a brief video message provided by the Sino-American Aviation Heritage Foundation.
Starting in 1941, the Flying Tigers' mission was undertaken by the First American Volunteer Group, which was disbanded in July 1942. The US 14th Air Force continued the group's mission the following year.
Moyer was first dispatched to Italy in 1941 for combat duties, and he arrived in China in January 1944 when he and his group were transferred to the US 14th Air Force in China under the command of General Claire Chennault.
"My main mission in China was to escort (bombers) from India into China as they proceeded on their bombing missions," Moyer said in his message.
In 2023, President Xi Jinping wrote a reply letter to Moyer, fellow Flying Tigers veteran Mel McMullen and Sino-American Aviation Heritage Foundation Chairman Jeffrey Greene, saying that it was his hope that the spirit of the Flying Tigers would be passed down to the next generation of peoples of both countries.
This year, Moyer was unable to attend the 85th anniversary commemorations in China, and his son Peter Gresham Moyer flew to China in his place as part of a US delegation of Flying Tigers family members.
"Before I left, I was visiting with him. He wanted me to make sure that I express my gratitude for what he did, because he was just one person," Peter told Chinese reporters.
"There were many, many people that did what he did, but he just has so much respect for the Chinese people and wanted to do whatever he could to help them," he added.
In Nanjing, Jiangsu province — a city that suffered Japan's brutal massacre that claimed over 300,000 Chinese civilians — the Flying Tigers descendants, including Peter, attended the launch ceremony of the Commemoration of the 85th Anniversary of the Flying Tigers Coming to China on July 16.
They also visited the Memorial Hall of Nanjing Anti-Japanese Aviation Martyrs, seeing an exhibition presenting relics and photos related to the Flying Tigers.
"I'm very emotional and overwhelmed by the respect and the thankfulness that the people of China have shown me," Peter said about the moment he saw his father's picture there.
"It gives me great pleasure to know that he's one of the people who have been recognized," he added.
Zhu Feng, dean of the School of International Studies at Nanjing University, said the history of the Flying Tigers "should not be forgotten" as it is a testament to the unity and collaboration between the two countries against the Japanese invasion.
"The heroic contributions made by the Flying Tigers are a precious legacy that we will always honor, and they represent a shining chapter in China-US relations," he added.