TITLE:
NBA stars trailed by fans ahead of China Games

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-08

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202610/08/WS6ac7b697e4b06d4aa0561bfa.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
NBA stars trailed by fans ahead of China Games
The hoop stars knew it would be crazy before arriving, but the buzz surrounding the 2026 NBA China Games in Macao still managed to blow their minds.
Since landing in the Macao Special Administrative Region, basketball players from the Dallas Mavericks and Houston Rockets have been amazed at every turn by the sheer intensity of the local fans' passion — a reception that has exceeded even their highest expectations.
Fans have trailed the players to promotional events, meet-and-greets, and media interviews across the city. On Thursday, hundreds lined up hours early at the Venetian Arena just to catch glimpses of their heroes, cheering every drill, layup, and 3-point shot during the two teams' first open practice sessions.
The two teams will play their first game of the series on Friday at the Venetian Arena before squaring again on Sunday to wrap up the league's 15th China Games trip.
The stars appreciate a fandom that has been phenomenal since the NBA first brought its pre-season games to China in 2004.
The Mavericks' All-Star guard Kyrie Irving lingered after the team's photo call on Wednesday to sign autographs. On Thursday, the Rockets' Kevin Durant high-fived every kid at an NBA Cares youth basketball clinic.
Young stars like the Mavericks' Cooper Flagg, visiting the country for the first time, have been struck by how much Chinese fans know—not just about the game, but about their personal stories too.
"I've been coming here since I was 19. So this is an honor that I carry with me, just being aware of the support that I've enjoyed from here and having developed a lot of relationships over here," Irving said after practice, reflecting on his long ties to Chinese fans.
"Coming back here feels like a second home now," said the nine-time All-Star, who has made frequent visits through his sponsorship with Anta.
"They embrace you when you embrace them back... the love is eternal. They're always been giving me gifts, something that i could take home to my family.
"It really is a family atmosphere, so I feel the love of basketball at the root of it. They love basketball here just as much as we love in America. So it's no different."
Irving's teammate Flagg, the NBA's 2025-26 Rookie of the Year, said he had heard about Chinese fans' love for basketball—but never expected such an enthusiastic response to a young player like himself.
"Basketball has taken me to a lot of places, but it's my first time here. The fans have been amazing and they show up everywhere [we go]," the 19-year-old forward said at a New Balance meet-and-greet at The Londoner hotel.
"That really is a strong support. It's really cool to experience the new culture and meet the new fans. It's been a great experience."
Thursday also marked the start of Community Impact Week 2026, a five-day NBA Cares initiative with Sands China Ltd that runs through Sunday, bringing together NBA legends and current players for youth clinics and community events.
The week kicked off Wednesday with a youth training camp at the Macao East Asian Games Dome, where about 200 children from schools across the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area received guidance from two-time NBA champion Ray Allen, NBA coaches, former Chinese national team star Ding Yanyuhang, and current women's team center Zhang Ziyu.
The Mavericks' forward Dwight Powell, who has been friends with Ding since he represented Dallas in the 2017 NBA Summer League, said the passion for the NBA in China stood out even among basketball-obsessed markets.
"I've been to China a few times and they know the game very well," Powell said after Thursday's open practice.
"They follow the game very closely ... I know there's a huge love for the game of basketball here and there's a lot of great talent here. They've been producing players for a long time and I know that's going to continue to grow."