TITLE:
President calls for closer friendship with Egypt

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-02

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/02/WS6a970164e4b06d4aa055bc61.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
President calls for closer friendship with Egypt
President Xi Jinping arrived in Egypt on Tuesday, setting foot in the land nourished by the Nile for the second time.
Upon arrival at Cairo International Airport, Xi and his wife, Peng Liyuan, were warmly welcomed by Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and his wife, Entissar El-Sisi.
"Once you drink from the Nile, you are destined to return," Xi invoked an Egyptian proverb in a signed article published by Egyptian media outlets on Tuesday.
"During my last visit 10 years ago, I was deeply impressed by the time-honored, profound civilization of this country, together with its booming vitality and upward momentum," Xi wrote.
Xi said he looks forward to renewing his friendship and working together with President El-Sisi to explore ways of cooperation and map out a new blueprint for deepening the China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership.
The visit comes as China and Egypt mark the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties.
For seven decades, the China-Egypt relationship has braved wind and rain, and withstood the test of a changing international landscape, staying on the right course, remaining robust as ever, and sustaining a strong momentum, Xi said.
The relationship is a fine example of China's cooperation with Arab states and Africa, and for friendship, solidarity and collaboration between developing nations, he added.
Xi noted that both countries are at a critical stage of development and revitalization. China saw its 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30) get off to a good start, and is striving to open up new ground in Chinese modernization.
Egypt is making vigorous efforts in building the New Republic and forging ahead toward its Vision 2030.
"The Chinese side is ready to work with the Egyptian side to deepen the comprehensive strategic partnership, advance building of a community with a shared future, and join hands in realizing modernization," Xi wrote.
He called on the two sides to keep supporting each other on core interests and major concerns, and deepen exchanges and cooperation at various levels and across sectors to ensure the baton of friendship is passed on from generation to generation.
Xi urged the two countries to forge more synergy in development strategies, engage in high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, proactively tap the potential and expand the scope of pragmatic collaboration in a bid to provide sustained impetus to the mutually beneficial cooperation.
Xi called on both China and Egypt to "take pride in who we are while setting an example for exchanges and mutual learning".
The two sides should deepen exchanges and cooperation in education, tourism, science and technology, health, sports and archaeology, Xi said.
Such efforts would forge a stronger bond of understanding and affinity, with a view to injecting new momentum into the comprehensive strategic partnership, and harnessing the strengths of diverse civilizations to promote the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, Xi added.
He underscored the shared responsibilities of China and Egypt in upholding fairness and justice as major developing countries and important members of the Global South.
With profound changes unfolding in a volatile international landscape, China and Egypt should uphold world peace and stability, and international fairness and justice by practicing true multilateralism, enhancing multilateral coordination and working together to deliver on the four global initiatives, he said.
Xi called on the two countries to join hands to lead the way in China-Arab and China-Africa cooperation.
Egypt plays an important role in promoting cooperation between China and Arab states, and between China and African countries, he said.
The Chinese side is ready to work with the Egyptian side to enhance the demonstration effect of their cooperation, Xi said. "For 70 years, China and Egypt have stood by each other rain or shine. Now our two countries are embarking on a new journey with enterprise and fortitude," he wrote.
mojingxi@chinadaily.com.cn