TITLE:
Services trade to benefit from policy tailwinds

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-29

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202608/29/WS6a9221a8e4b06d4aa055b203.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Services trade to benefit from policy tailwinds
China's trade in services, underpinned by robust growth in knowledge-intensive service-sector exports and burgeoning inbound tourism, is set to benefit from further policy and market developments in the second half, officials and experts said, pointing to the sector's emergence as a key engine of foreign trade growth.
Their remarks came ahead of the five-day 2026 China International Fair for Trade in Services, which is scheduled to open in Beijing on Sept 9, as the country doubles down on efforts to broaden access to its vast services market amid rising protectionist barriers and heightened economic uncertainty.
"This year's fair will bring together some 90 countries and international organizations, with more than 1,800 companies set to exhibit on-site," said Yan Dong, vice-minister of commerce, at a news conference on Friday.
More than 90 companies and institutions will unveil new technologies, products and services spanning information and communications technology, fintech and digital healthcare, some of which will be making their global debuts or their first showings in China, Yan said.
In order to strengthen the competitive edge of Chinese services in global markets, this year's fair will, for the first time, feature a promotion and roadshow area dedicated to overseas expansion services, said Tang Wenhong, vice-mayor of Beijing.
China's two-way trade in services posted solid growth in the first half, with total imports and exports rising 8.3 percent year-on-year to 3.8 trillion yuan ($560.4 billion), the Ministry of Commerce said.
Services exports surged 17.6 percent, providing a strong boost to foreign trade growth. Notably, knowledge-intensive services exports rose 12.8 percent to 805.67 billion yuan, accounting for 53.5 percent of the total.
"With knowledge-intensive services now accounting for more than half of the total, China's services exports have reached an inflection point and are moving further up the value chain," said Bai Wenxi, vice-chairman of the China Enterprise Capital Union, adding that digital technology and artificial intelligence are accelerating the shift, with digital services emerging as a new growth engine.
The sector is also set to receive further policy support in the July-December period, as national demonstration zones for the innovative development of trade in services and other measures begin to deliver results, said Yan, adding, "China's trade in services is expected to remain on a positive trajectory this year, with services exports continuing to grow strongly."
Wang Peng, a researcher at the Beijing Academy of Social Sciences, said China's expanding services sector is also creating new opportunities for foreign companies, given the country's vast market and well-developed industrial ecosystem.
"Foreign companies can leverage their expertise to play a greater role in China's expanding services market and benefit as consumer spending shifts toward higher-quality services," Wang said.
Falkor AS, a Norway-based industrial intelligence provider serving the global energy sector, will make its fifth appearance at CIFTIS this year, showcasing its solutions, real-world applications and the results of its work with industry partners, said Wu Haifeng, Falkor's senior vice-president.
Norway will be the guest country of honor at this year's fair. Norwegian businesses hope to use the occasion to build new partnerships in China, said Wu, who is also vice-chairman of the Norwegian Business Association China.
"Over the next five years, we will continue to increase our investment in China, deepen local partnerships and use industrial intelligence to boost operational performance and advance the green transition of the energy sector," Wu said.
Beijing, this year's host of CIFTIS, is also opening its services sector wider. A citywide data-export negative list now covers nine sectors, including medical devices, and opening-up pilots are underway in value-added telecommunications and biotechnology areas, said Tang, the city's vice-mayor.
zhangchenxu@chinadaily.com.cn