TITLE:
Starbucks expands China footprint with Xinjiang debut

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-04

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202610/04/WS6ac18bf3e4b06d4aa0561528.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Starbucks expands China footprint with Xinjiang debut
URUMQI - International coffee chain giant Starbucks on Tuesday opened two stores in Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur autonomous region, marking its debut in the region and the latest expansion in China, its second-largest market after the United States.
The stores are located in Urumqi, the regional capital -- one in the iconic Grand Bazaar and the other at Urumqi Tianshan International Airport.
The Grand Bazaar flagship store boasts a distinctive design inspired by traditional bazaar canopy silhouettes, with interiors featuring Xinjiang elements like Atlas silk and ethnic musical instruments. Both stores have rolled out locally inspired menus and exclusive drinks, such as the milk-skin-flavored salty milk tea.
"Entering Xinjiang not only marks a further expansion of our store network, but also allows us to engage deeply with this vibrant market and build sincere, lasting connections with our customers there," Molly Liu, chief executive officer of Starbucks China, said in a written statement.
Zhang Yu, an official with the regional administration for market regulation, said Xinjiang has made the "first-store economy" -- a gauge of urban commercial vitality and consumer appeal -- a key lever for boosting domestic demand and consumption.
Zhang added that Xinjiang will continue to improve support policies for first stores, enhance approval efficiency and optimize the business environment.
The openings follow Starbucks' partnership with Chinese venture capital firm Boyu Capital to operate its retail business in China. According to the agreement signed in November last year, Boyu and Starbucks will operate a joint venture with Boyu holding up to a 60-percent interest in Starbucks' retail operations in China, while Starbucks will retain the remaining 40-percent interest in the joint venture, and continue to own the Starbucks brand and license the brand and intellectual property to the new entity.
The latest expansion comes as Starbucks is restructuring its North American business, with the company announcing plans last week to close 250 underperforming coffeehouses in the region.
Starbucks entered the Chinese mainland in January 1999, opening its first store in Beijing. As coffee culture took root and gained popularity, the chain steadily expanded its footprint across China. By Sept 27, 2026, Starbucks operated 8,342 stores on the Chinese mainland, up 331 from the end of fiscal 2025, according to its fiscal 2026 data.
The Chinese mainland is now Starbucks' second-largest market after the United States, where the company operated 16,933 stores as of June 28, 2026, according to its fiscal 2026 third-quarter results.
Its long-running expansion reflects how foreign brands are seeking opportunities in China's growing consumer market.
The State Administration for Market Regulation said China saw 35,000 newly established foreign-invested enterprises in the first half of 2026, up 7 percent year-on-year. Separate data from the Ministry of Commerce showed nearly 4,800 foreign-funded enterprises increased investment in China in the first half of 2026.