TITLE:
Stronger rescue efforts in Xizang urged

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-29

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202608/29/WS6a91b5f5e4b06d4aa055b19b.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Stronger rescue efforts in Xizang urged
Xi sends message of condolence to Nepal over mudslide
Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, chaired a Party leadership meeting on Friday to deliberate and make arrangements to strengthen rescue and relief efforts in the Xizang autonomous region, where the Gyirong land port along the China-Nepal border and its surrounding areas were hit by a catastrophic mudslide on Wednesday morning.
At the start of the meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, Xi, who is also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, and other leaders observed a moment of silence to mourn the victims of the disaster.
As of press time on Friday, five people were confirmed dead and more than 500 still missing in Gyirong county in Xizang's Shigatse. Nepal has reported 579 deaths, while more than 1,900 people are missing there.
On Friday, Xi sent a message of condolence to Nepal's President Ram Chandra Poudel over the mudslide, which was triggered by a high-altitude glacial collapse. On behalf of the Chinese government and people, Xi expressed deep condolences for the deceased and offered sincere sympathies to the bereaved families, the injured and the people in the disaster-stricken areas.
During the Political Bureau meeting, it was noted that emergency rescue operations in Gyirong county in Xizang's Shigatse have so far been carried out in a swift, orderly and well-coordinated manner under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee, with comprehensive efforts underway for the resettlement of affected people and for proper handling of the aftermath.
The disaster occurred in a severely cold plateau region with steep valleys, variable weather and many surrounding glaciers and glacial lakes, and potential geological hazards are posing significant challenges to emergency rescue operations, the meeting said. It was emphasized that all relevant authorities and departments should take resolute and effective measures for rescue-related work, search and rescue plans should be formulated in a scientific manner, and every effort should be made to search for and rescue all missing Chinese and foreign nationals.
The Party leadership also underlined the need to strengthen multi-department joint consultations, enhance monitoring and early-warning systems, and closely track the stability of the barrier lake and surrounding mountains to effectively prevent secondary disasters.
It is essential to reinforce the management of on-site personnel to ensure safety throughout the rescue process, the meeting said, urging proper arrangements for the affected people and meticulous attention to post-disaster relief and support.
China will provide emergency aid to the disaster-hit areas in neighboring Nepal and carry out international rescue cooperation, the Party leadership decided.
The importance of balancing development and security, preparing for the extreme and worst-case scenarios, and bearing a strong sense of political responsibility and constant vigilance to ensure security and stability in all aspects of work was emphasized at the meeting.
Meanwhile, Xi, in his condolence message to Poudel, noted that China and Nepal are connected by mountains and rivers and share a common destiny. China is willing to actively aid Nepal in its rescue efforts and provide support and assistance to the best of its capability, he said.
Xi expressed his belief that the people of both countries will be able to work together to prevail over the disaster and rebuild their homes as soon as possible.
Premier Li Qiang also sent a message of condolence to Nepal's Prime Minister Balendra Shah.
Entrusted by Xi, the Chinese premier traveled to Gyirong county on Thursday to guide rescue and emergency response efforts.
While assessing the ground situation and meeting with rescue teams, Li emphasized the need to put the people and their lives above all else and spare no effort in carrying out rescue operations and emergency response work.
He said that as long as there is a glimmer of hope, every effort should be made to search for and rescue still those missing.
Li later visited temporary shelters for affected residents and conveyed President Xi's concern and care to them.
The premier emphasized the need to continue dispatching and transporting disaster-relief supplies and ensure the basic living needs of evacuated and relocated residents.
Li heard reports from local authorities and relevant departments about the disaster, and discussed further efforts in rescue and emergency response measures.
He highlighted the need to coordinate the deployment of rescue forces and equipment, strengthen on-site unified command and thoroughly ascertain the status of missing persons to conduct effective rescues.
Transparency in the release of information regarding the disaster and rescue operations is crucial, he added.
caodesheng@chinadaily.com.cn