TITLE:
Tourism in fast lane: Visor down, confidence up

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-05

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/05/WS6a9a95bbe4b06d4aa055c6e2.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
As night descends over Chongqing, the mind-bending vertical metropolis in Southwest China with layered thoroughfares and surreal architecture turns into a dazzling display of neon.
Against this backdrop, a quirky motorcycle-based video trend is taking hold, which many netizens say feels like "visa-on-arrival". The captivating experience involves zipping past illuminated landmarks on a heavy-duty mobile machine, further augmenting the spatial perception of the "eight dimensional" city of mountains and rivers.
As the radiant glow of Nanbin Road on the southern bank of the Yangtze River and the towering skyscrapers of the Yuzhong Peninsula evoke scenes from a cyberpunk movie, visitors from around the world are drawn to what has become a new "entry ritual" in Chongqing, the largest municipality in China both in terms of land area and population.
For only 198 yuan ($30), enthusiasts can embark on a guided motorcycle video shoot that captures the city's striking night view dotted with landmarks such as the Ciyun Temple, the Hongyadong complex and the Dongshuimen Bridge.
These short videos of up to 30 seconds, include iconic gestures and custom soundtracks, offering a unique memento of the city's vibrant nightlife.
Tatiana Dvortsova, 35, a marketing specialist from Moscow, Russia, recalled that she first saw the trend on Instagram two months ago. "It made me very curious. Is this for real, I thought," said Dvortsova.
Intrigued, she and her husband chose Chongqing as their first stop during their recent 10-day trip to China. On Aug 26, she spent 498 yuan on an upgraded motorcycle tour, opting for several iconic moments such as being swept off her feet by the rider, riding into freedom with her arms open wide, forming a heart with her hands and executing a cool salute while lowering the helmet visor.
"I have no words for how excited I was to see the city," Dvortsova said. "The motorcycle experience was scary, but totally worth it."
Bai Yu, a former safety instructor and now a thrill rider, advised Dvortsova to clamp her knees to his waist and keep her body tense during the ride. This, he said, would help her maintain balance in case of sudden acceleration or lane switch, ensuring her safety while offering a very exciting experience.
Mukhamadeeva Lina Olegovna, 22, a university junior from Moscow, also took the tour. "It was amazing! It was the first such experience of my life," she said.
The trend is particularly popular among international visitors, unexpectedly showcasing Chongqing's motorcycle prowess on the global stage. Known as China's "motorcycle capital", the city boasts a unique motorcycle industry and culture. Bai, the rider, noted that around 95 percent of his customers are from foreign countries, including Russia, South Korea, Kazakhstan, Thailand and Singapore.
According to Chongqing Daily, by early August, the trend garnered over 1.4 billion views on Chinese video-sharing platform Douyin. On travel platform Trip.com, foreign tourists have described the experience as "like being in a sci-fi movie".