TITLE:
Visit was amazing, says former US teacher

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-02

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/02/WS6a977740e4b06d4aa055bd45.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Visit was amazing, says former US teacher
Retired United States teacher Ronald Sakolsky said his 10-day visit to China has far exceeded anything he could have imagined, as he witnessed the country's environmental progress and reconnected with former students who now have professionally established careers.
He visited China from Aug 23 to Tuesday at the invitation of the China Education Association for International Exchange. The story of Sakolsky and desert greening pioneer Yin Yuzhen from the Inner Mongolia autonomous region has sparked wide discussion online, turning both of them into well-known figures in China.
In 1999, Sakolsky helped Yin's greening efforts with a $5,000 donation, which has since helped contribute to the planting of more than 50,000 trees.
"I did not have expectations when I came back to China," Sakolsky said in an interview with China Daily on Tuesday. "This journey for the last 10 days has been beyond what I even could have expected."
Sakolsky, who taught in China through a teacher exchange program in Luoyang, Henan province, from 1999 to 2000, expressed amazement at the changes in cities and air quality.
"The advancement just has been amazing to me. Luoyang is a beautiful, beautiful city. They've made it a beautiful city, but you know what? They didn't stop; they're still building."
He repeatedly turned the spotlight away from himself and onto Yin. "She proved me wrong and made it possible," he said.
"She's the one who carried the trees on her shoulder, dug into the sand to plant them, and watered them; she's the hero," he added.
Sakolsky stressed that the core message is not about any individual, but about protecting the planet. "I'm not the spotlight. The story is not me. The message is that students come first. Plant a tree. Mother Earth is alive. We must take care of the earth so that she will take care of us," he said.
Sakolsky emphasized the need for greater mutual understanding between China and the US. He noted that many Americans have limited knowledge about China due to a lack of education on the subject.
Similarly, he mentioned that many Chinese people have insufficient information about the US.
"Through education, teacher exchange, student exchange … we can educate those who wish to learn and bring us closer together."
When asked whether the idea of China and the US becoming like family is too idealistic, he pointed to Yin's example: the impossible can become possible. He acknowledged that achieving closer ties would take a long time and happen very slowly, but he insisted that progress must be made and that the two countries should move forward rather than backward.
He also encouraged young people in both countries to broaden their perspectives, noting that many Americans mistakenly believe the rest of the world lives as they do. He pointed out that different nations have their own ways of life, and that by learning from one another and adopting the best from each, the world could become a better place.
Yang Jun, vice-president and secretary-general of the China Education Association for International Exchange, said that the simple act of kindness Sakolsky showed 26 years ago has resulted in a lifelong friendship. He expressed hope that the seeds planted today would grow into millions of such relationships.
Yang added that Sakolsky's story demonstrates that a successful program can yield a friendship that spans decades, a forest that spans acres and a role model that inspires millions.