TITLE:
Xi: China, India can achieve shared growth

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-13

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/13/WS6aa589a1e4b06d4aa055dbe8.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi: China, India can achieve shared growth
Nations urged to provide positive energy for global peace, stability
President Xi Jinping said on Saturday that China and India, although having different national conditions, can learn from each other's strengths to achieve shared success and pursue common development.
He made the remarks when meeting with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi on the sidelines of the 18th BRICS Summit in New Delhi, the capital of India. The two leaders had a candid and in-depth exchange of views, reaching an important consensus on China and India being partners.
Xi said that amid a complex international situation, China and India — as the two most populous countries and important members of the Global South — bear significant responsibilities.
Both countries should keep the future of humanity in mind and the well-being of their peoples at heart, and work together to promote the high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation, providing more positive energy for world peace, stability and prosperity, he said.
On the development of bilateral relations, Xi urged India to calibrate the direction with an objective and rational strategic understanding, saying that China and India are partners, not rivals, and they represent development opportunities for each other, not threats.
Xi underlined the need for both sides to uphold a win-win approach to achieve mutual success.
The two countries should expand cooperation in cultural and people-to-people exchanges, as well as increase direct flights, to improve the public opinion foundation of bilateral relations, he said, adding that the two nations should also adopt a balanced approach to address each other's economic and trade concerns.
Xi urged eliminating interference with the political wisdom of mutual respect and mutual understanding, saying that the two countries should remain committed to a dual-track approach of advancing bilateral relations and resolving the boundary question, with both reinforcing each other and maintaining peace and tranquility in border areas.
He also called for China and India to strengthen coordination within multilateral frameworks in addition to BRICS, such as the United Nations, the Shanghai Cooperation Organization and the Group of 20, and work together to address global challenges and staunchly defend international fairness and justice.
During their meeting, Modi assured Xi that India always views its relationship with China from a strategic and long-term perspective. India is willing to be partners with China, rather than rivals, and is ready to view China's development as an opportunity, rather than a challenge, he said.
Modi said that India adheres to an independent foreign policy, and its development of relations with China is not influenced by third parties.
India's policy and stance on the Taiwan question and issues related to the Xizang autonomous region remain unchanged, and it will not allow any force to engage in anti-China activities in the country, he added.
Modi expressed India's readiness to maintain high-level exchanges and strengthen strategic communication with China based on mutual respect and mutual trust, promote mutually beneficial cooperation, and encourage close cultural and people-to-people exchanges to achieve greater development in bilateral relations.
He also expressed India's commitment to working with China to maintain peace and tranquility in border areas.