TITLE:
Xi: National rejuvenation is unstoppable

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-01

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202610/01/WS6abd95c1e4b06d4aa056115d.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi: National rejuvenation is unstoppable
President applauds PRC's remarkable achievements at reception in Beijing
President Xi Jinping said on Wednesday that the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is unstoppable and expressed full confidence in the bright prospects for Chinese modernization, on the eve of China's National Day on Oct 1.
Xi, who is also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks while addressing a reception at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing to celebrate the 77th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic of China.
Xi said that the system of socialism with Chinese characteristics has demonstrated tremendous strengths through long-term exploration and practice, and that China has continued to make progress in modernizing its system and capacity for governance.
Reflecting on the past 77 years, Xi said the Party has united and led the Chinese people in tireless efforts, creating the twin miracles of rapid economic development and long-term social stability.
China has achieved its first centenary goal of building a moderately prosperous society in all respects and is forging ahead toward its second centenary goal of building a great modern socialist country in all respects, he said.
"At this moment, we are immensely proud of the remarkable achievements of New China and fully confident in the bright prospects for Chinese modernization," Xi told around 800 Chinese and foreign guests, including Party and State leaders, foreign envoys, recipients of national honors and dignitaries from all walks of life.
Reviewing this year's progress, Xi said the entire Party and the nation have forged ahead with determination and worked tirelessly, formulating and implementing the 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30), making solid progress across various fields, and effectively responding to risks and challenges.
The Chinese economy has continued to advance despite pressures, making progress in innovation-led and high-quality development while demonstrating strong resilience and vitality, he said.
New progress and achievements have been made in the cause of the Party and the country, Xi added.
Facing complex international and domestic conditions, Xi called for adhering to the general principle of pursuing progress while ensuring stability, fully and faithfully applying the new development philosophy on all fronts, and moving faster to foster a new pattern of development.
He urged further deepening reform and opening-up, better coordinating development and security, and promoting continued economic improvement through innovation and higher-quality development.
Efforts should also be made to guarantee and improve people's livelihoods, meet the targets and tasks set for the year and ensure a good start to the 15th Five-Year Plan period, he said.
Xi stressed the need to unswervingly implement the policy of "one country, two systems", under which the people of Hong Kong administer Hong Kong and the people of Macao administer Macao, both with a high degree of autonomy.
He called for supporting Hong Kong and Macao in better integrating into and contributing to the country's overall development, and maintaining their long-term prosperity and stability.
On cross-Strait relations, Xi called for deepening exchanges and cooperation, resolutely cracking down on "Taiwan independence" separatist forces and opposing external interference.
He also urged efforts to promote the peaceful development of cross-Strait relations and advance the cause of national reunification.
On foreign affairs, Xi called for adhering to an independent foreign policy of peace, advancing the implementation of the four global initiatives and promoting the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, in order to inject more certainty and positive energy into a world marked by change and turmoil.
"As long as we remain confident, stay focused on our goals and move forward steadily, step by step, success will surely belong to the great Communist Party of China, the great Chinese people and the great People's Republic of China," he said.
mojingxi@chinadaily.com.cn