TITLE:
Xi reiterates Mideast peace stance

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-25

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202608/25/WS6a8ccc30e4b057c97e2097dc.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi reiterates Mideast peace stance
Two-state solution stressed in talks with Jordan's king
President Xi Jinping reiterated on Monday China's position on the political settlement of the Middle East issue with the Palestinian question at its core, urging efforts to push for the resumption of talks between Palestine and Israel based on the two-state solution and the early establishment of an independent Palestinian state.
Xi made the remarks during his talks with King of the Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan Abdullah II ibn Al Hussein in Beijing. The Jordanian monarch was on a weeklong state visit to China, which concluded on Monday.
Xi emphasized that China has consistently advocated a comprehensive ceasefire, cessation of hostilities and the resolution of disputes through political and diplomatic means, and it maintains that the sovereignty and security of countries in the region, including Jordan, should be respected.
Noting that the principle of "the Palestinians governing Palestine" must be upheld, Xi said that Palestine is the home of all Palestinians, and this principle should be implemented in advancing the governance of the West Bank and postwar reconstruction of Gaza.
He underlined the need to adhere to humanitarianism, with the international community, especially the United Nations Security Council, taking responsibility for protecting the safety of civilians, ensuring humanitarian aid and preventing humanitarian disasters.
Xi called for upholding fairness and justice, following international law, addressing both symptoms and root causes, and taking pragmatic actions to achieve a comprehensive, just and lasting solution to the Palestinian question at an early date.
China values Jordan's unique and important role in the region and firmly supports it in safeguarding its national sovereignty, security and development interests, he added.
King Abdullah II expressed Jordan's high appreciation for China's fair stance on the Middle East issue as well as its support for the just cause of the Arab states, saying that China's just position is very important to countries in the region.
Jordan is willing to maintain close communication with China and continue to make positive efforts to ease the current situation to enable the people of Middle East countries to enjoy peace and prosperity.
Regarding bilateral ties, Xi said that since the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Jordan, both countries have consistently respected each other, treated each other as equals, and engaged in mutually beneficial cooperation, setting a vivid example of win-win cooperation and mutual learning between small and big countries with different social systems.
In the face of international and regional situations of turmoil and transformation, building a more substantial and dynamic China-Jordan relationship meets the common expectations of the two peoples and aligns with the trend of solidarity and self-strengthening among countries of the Global South, he said.
Xi called on both countries to promote their traditional friendship, enhance strategic mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, strengthen multilateral coordination, and push for greater development of the China-Jordan strategic partnership to make positive contributions to regional peace, stability and prosperity.
China is willing to engage with Jordan at all levels of government, political parties, legislative bodies and local exchanges, and to strengthen the exchange of governance experiences, he said.
Saying that the nature of China-Jordan cooperation is of mutual benefit and win-win, Xi underlined the need for both sides to further deepen the alignment of their development strategies, strengthen cooperation in traditional fields such as economy and trade, infrastructure construction, transportation and minerals, and expand new growth areas of partnership in the digital economy, artificial intelligence and green energy.
China is willing to work with Jordan to implement the four global initiatives, strengthen coordination and cooperation in multilateral institutions such as the UN, jointly uphold an international system with the UN at its core and an international order governed by international law, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for humanity, he said.
King Abdullah II said China is a great country that has achieved remarkable and admirable development accomplishments under the leadership of President Xi.
Jordan firmly adheres to the one-China policy, recognizing Taiwan as part of the Chinese territory, he said.
Noting that Jordan highly values its relationship with China, he expressed his country's commitment to deepening cooperation and exchanges with China in areas such as economy and trade, manufacturing, agriculture, science and technology, medicine, culture and education.
He said that Jordan welcomes more investments from Chinese enterprises to achieve common development and prosperity.
Jordan highly appreciates the four global initiatives proposed by President Xi and looks forward to China playing a more significant leadership role on the world stage, he added.
Following their talks, the two leaders jointly witnessed the signing of multiple cooperation documents in fields such as diplomacy, economy and trade, supply chains and the judiciary. The two sides issued a joint statement on deepening the China-Jordan strategic partnership.
Before the talks, Xi held a welcoming ceremony for King Abdullah II at the Great Hall of the People.
caodesheng@chinadaily.com.cn