TITLE:
Xi stresses China-UK cooperation

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/09/WS6aa09144e4b06d4aa055cfc4.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi stresses China-UK cooperation
In phone talks with Burnham, he notes two countries' broad common interests
President Xi Jinping has called on China and the United Kingdom to respect and trust each other, transcend disagreements, seek common ground while reserving differences and make the pie of mutually beneficial cooperation even bigger.
Xi made the remarks in phone talks with UK Prime Minister Andy Burnham on Tuesday. This marked their first interaction since Burnham took office in July.
Xi, who congratulated Burnham on assuming office as UK prime minister, noted that China and the UK are comprehensive strategic partners, and stressed that despite their different social systems and national conditions, the two countries share more common interests than differences.
As both governments are committed to developing the economy and improving people's livelihoods, they can draw on their respective strengths and provide mutual support, he added.
Xi said that during its 15th Five-Year Plan (2026-30) period, China will further expand opening-up in sectors such as education, healthcare and finance, which he described as areas with great potential for bilateral cooperation.
He added that as major countries in science and technology with rich resources in education, culture and sports, China and the UK should maintain an open and forward-looking perspective, and strengthen exchanges and cooperation across all fields.
Xi also expressed his hope that the UK will fully protect the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese investors.
Regarding multilateral affairs, Xi underscored that the two countries are both permanent members of the United Nations Security Council and major economies in the world, and they both support multilateralism and open trade and uphold the central role of the UN.
He called for joint efforts to strengthen communication and cooperation within frameworks such as the UN, the G20 and the World Trade Organization, in order to promote an equal and orderly multipolar world as well as universally beneficial and inclusive economic globalization.
Burnham welcomed Xi's views and recalled that during his tenure as mayor of Greater Manchester, he had maintained many years of friendly exchanges with China.
President Xi made a state visit to the UK in 2015, which included a trip to Manchester. This, Burnham said, has had a significant impact on promoting exchanges and cooperation between the local community and the Chinese side.
The UK will maintain continuity in its China policy and is firmly committed to developing a long-term and consistent UK-China comprehensive strategic partnership, Burnham said.
He expressed the UK's readiness to engage in high-level exchanges with China, advance bilateral cooperation across all fields and strengthen people-to-people ties, in an effort to restore bilateral relations to their historical high level and bring greater benefits to the two peoples.
Burnham reaffirmed that the UK's position on the Taiwan question remains unchanged.
Amid the current volatile and complex international landscape, the UK and China, as permanent members of the UN Security Council, should promote dialogue to resolve international hot spot issues and jointly address global challenges such as climate change, in order to safeguard world stability and prosperity, he said.
Burnham also commended China's efficient and effective response to the mudslide that struck Gyirong county in the Xizang autonomous region, while expressing his appreciation to China for assisting UK citizens who were affected.
The two leaders agreed to stay in touch and said that dialogue between their governments on a range of mutual priorities would continue, according to a news release issued by the British Prime Minister's Office after the phone talks.