TITLE:
Xi urges new Mideast security steps

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/03/WS6a98588ce4b06d4aa055c04f.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi urges new Mideast security steps
President Xi Jinping called on Wednesday for efforts to build a new security architecture in the Middle East via upholding a vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, while supporting countries in the region in developing good-neighborly and friendly relations.
Xi made the remarks during talks with Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi in Cairo, where he put forward a four-point proposal on the situation in the Middle East.
Xi called for fostering the internal driving force for common security in the region, advancing an integrated approach, cementing development foundation and enhancing international coordination.
Xi expressed opposition to interference by external forces and voiced support for countries in the region strengthening dialogue on peace and security, exploring the building of a new security architecture for the Middle East, and taking their future into their own hands.
He said that a comprehensive approach should be adopted to advance common security in the region and that, given the multiple hot spots in the Middle East and their close interconnections, comprehensive solutions should be pursued.
He stressed that the Palestinian question remains at the core of the Middle East issue and should never be ignored or marginalized.
Development, Xi noted, is fundamental to achieving lasting peace and stability in the region. China stands ready to work with countries in the region to safeguard the security of international shipping lanes, advance development cooperation and promote the convergence of interests of the region's countries, thereby gradually enhancing mutual trust and eliminating the root causes of the conflict.
Xi also said that international coordination for common security in the region should be strengthened, and the United Nations Charter and international law should serve as the fundamental principles for handling Middle East affairs.
The international community, particularly major powers outside the region, should abandon double standards, respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of countries in the region and help safeguard regional peace and stability, he said, while calling for support for the UN in playing its due role in Middle East affairs.
El-Sisi expressed high appreciation for China's consistent, objective and impartial positions on the Middle East issue.
He reaffirmed Egypt's readiness to continue coordination with all regional and international parties, particularly with China, a pivotal state and a permanent member of the UN Security Council, in order to promote efforts aimed at reducing regional tensions, driving development and addressing global challenges.
High-level talks
Xi's two-day visit to Egypt marked his first state visit to Egypt in a decade and came as the two countries celebrate the 70th anniversary of diplomatic ties, with Egypt having been the first Arab and African country to establish diplomatic relations with the People's Republic of China.
During his talks with El-Sisi, Xi noted that in recent years, under the joint guidance of the two leaders, the China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership has made significant strides.
Amid a turbulent international and regional landscape, the two countries should continue supporting each other, deepen cooperation and advance the building of a China-Egypt community with a shared future, he stressed.
Xi called on the two sides to maintain the momentum of high-level exchanges, expand communication and cooperation at various levels and in different fields, and strengthen exchanges and mutual learning on governance.
Regarding economic cooperation, he urged stronger alignment of the two countries' development strategies and efforts to further tap the potential of traditional areas such as infrastructure, electricity, agriculture and communications technology.
At the same time, the two countries should foster new areas of cooperation in green energy, electric vehicles, aerospace, the digital economy and modern agricultural technology, he said.
Egypt was among the earliest countries to participate in Belt and Road cooperation. China has been Egypt's largest trading partner and source of imports for 14 consecutive years, while bilateral trade increased from $10.21 billion in 2013 to $20.79 billion in 2025.
More than 2,800 Chinese companies are operating in Egypt, contributing to major projects in areas including infrastructure, new and renewable energy, transportation, economic zones, telecommunications, textiles, aerospace and advanced technologies, according to Khaled Nazmy, Egypt's ambassador to China.
Xi also called for broader people-to-people exchanges in culture, education, science and technology, healthcare and sports, as well as greater personnel exchanges to strengthen mutual understanding between the two peoples.
The two sides should deepen security cooperation, jointly combat transnational crime, strengthen international cooperation against corruption, firmly support each other's counterterrorism efforts, and safeguard their common security, he added.
On multilateral affairs, Xi called for closer coordination within the UN, BRICS and other multilateral platforms, as well as joint efforts to promote the development of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation.
The two countries should work together to oppose unilateralism and bullying and promote a more just and equitable global governance system, he added.
El-Sisi reaffirmed Egypt's firm adherence to the one-China principle and hailed the "tangible leap" in bilateral relations across various fields, saying there is clear political will on both sides to further expand cooperation, particularly in industrial localization and technology transfer.
Following the talks, the two presidents witnessed the signing of a number of cooperation documents covering Belt and Road cooperation, artificial intelligence, trade and economic cooperation, and industrial and supply chains.
The two sides also issued a joint statement on further deepening their comprehensive strategic partnership. More than 20 cooperation documents were signed during the visit in areas including the digital economy, science and technology, education and transportation.