TITLE:
Xi's speech praised for future vision

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-03

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202610/03/WS6ac03e95e4b06d4aa05613c4.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi's speech praised for future vision
National Day address reflected China's journey, peaceful goals, observers say
President Xi Jinping's speech, delivered on the eve of China's National Day on Oct 1, has been praised by observers as one that reflected both confidence in China's remarkable journey and a clear vision for its future, conveying a clear signal of the nation's unwavering commitment to global peace and development.
Speaking at a reception held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Wednesday, Xi said that over the past 77 years, the Communist Party of China has led the Chinese people in achieving two miracles: rapid economic growth and enduring social stability.
On foreign affairs, Xi said China will stick to its independent foreign policy of peace, advance the implementation of the four major global initiatives it has proposed, and promote the building of a community with a shared future for humanity to contribute greater certainty and positive energy to a turbulent world.
Proposed by Xi between 2021 and 2025, the four major global initiatives on development, security, civilization and governance serve as China's public goods to advance global governance reform and build a community with a shared future for humanity.
These themes resonated strongly with international observers, who underscored the global relevance of China's development trajectory. They lauded China's achievements in modernization over the past decades, emphasizing their significant relevance and lessons for a number of developing countries.
Aruna Goonatilleke, president of the Sri Lanka-China Friendship Association, said President Xi's balanced assessment — combining grounded confidence in the country's vast economic growth and long-term social stability with a sober awareness of future challenges — demonstrates why China's governance model remains a beacon for developing nations.
"As China transitions from achieving a moderately prosperous society to pursuing its second centenary goal of building a great modern socialist country, its steady progress proves that independent, socialist-led development offers a clear, proven path toward national dignity and prosperity," she said.
"For Global South countries like Sri Lanka, China's growing strength is not merely an internal milestone, but a vital force for global stability, equity and peace," Goonatilleke said. "President Xi's reaffirmation of an independent foreign policy of peace, alongside China's commitment to advancing the four global initiatives and building a community with a shared future for humanity, brings much-needed certainty to today's volatile geopolitical landscape."
Keith Bennett, senior international affairs analyst and co-editor of the Friends of Socialist China platform, echoed this view, noting that socialism with Chinese characteristics offers a new example for countries that wish to rapidly develop their economies while maintaining their independence.
"In reaffirming that China will pursue an independent foreign policy of peace, Xi is making clear that China will strive to create the best possible conditions for the country's modernization and also at the same time work tirelessly toward the creation of a global community of shared future for humanity, and that these two goals cannot be separated from one another," Bennett said.
David Tabacznyj, founder of France-based artificial intelligence training company allIAnce, said that modernization is not only about infrastructure, technology or economic growth; it is first about people and the opportunities created for them to improve their lives. "What impressed me most was the speed of change and the collective capacity to adapt in China," Tabacznyj said.
"Chinese modernization should not be viewed in Europe only through competition. It can create bridges, cooperation and mutual understanding, which are essential for long-term global stability," he said.
Observers also pointed to the evolving nature and international implications of China's development path.
Tom Harper, a China specialist and lecturer in international relations at the University of East London, said the speech showed the priorities in China's development, which have been to pursue higher quality and more environmentally friendly growth. It is also indicative of the priorities for Chinese foreign policy in the near future, he added.
Moiz Farooq, executive editor of Pakistan Economic Net and Daily Ittehad Media Group, said: "Equally significant is President Xi's message to the international community. His emphasis on peace, cooperation, the four global initiatives and building a community with a shared future for humanity reflects China's stated approach toward contributing greater stability and certainty to an increasingly complex international environment," Farooq said.
Zhang Zhouxiang in Brussels, Xing Yi and Wang Mingjie in London contributed to this story.
Contact the writers at vivienxu@chinadailyapac.com