TITLE:
Xi, Japarov sign treaty to deepen ties

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-01

SOURCE:
China Daily English

CATEGORY:
Authoritative PRC Media

URL:
https://www.chinadaily.com.cn/a/202609/01/WS6a95ba1ee4b06d4aa055b7f5.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xi, Japarov sign treaty to deepen ties
Leaders pledge to boost Sino-Kyrgyz friendship and mutual support
At around 11:30 am local time on Monday in Bishkek, the capital of Kyrgyzstan, President Xi Jinping and Kyrgyz President Sadyr Japarov put their signatures to a treaty on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation, after which they exchanged copies of the treaty, shook hands and posed for photographs.
The two presidents also signed a joint declaration on the high-quality development of the China-Kyrgyzstan comprehensive strategic partnership for a new era, and witnessed the exchange of bilateral cooperation documents covering investment, transportation, customs and sister-city relations.
During Xi's visit, which began on Sunday, the two sides signed more than 20 additional cooperation documents in areas including science and technology, education, culture, people-to-people exchanges and the media.
While holding bilateral talks with Japarov, Xi said that high-level political mutual trust and firm mutual support are important guarantees for the steady and long-term development of China-Kyrgyzstan relations.
China firmly supports Kyrgyzstan in safeguarding its national sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity, and supports the country in pursuing a development path suited to its national conditions, Xi said.
He added that China stands ready to continue firmly supporting Kyrgyzstan on issues concerning each other's core interests.
Japarov said he was honored to welcome Xi to Kyrgyzstan on the 35th anniversary of the country's independence, which fell on Monday. The visit further demonstrated the profound friendship and high level of political mutual trust between the two countries and marked an important milestone in bilateral relations, he said.
Xi said the signing of the treaty on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation will provide an important legal foundation for friendship between the two countries from generation to generation and for their continued mutual support.
China is advancing the building of a strong country and national rejuvenation on all fronts through Chinese modernization, while Kyrgyzstan is making every effort to implement its National Development Program through 2030, Xi said.
China is ready to work with Kyrgyzstan to better align their development strategies, deepen exchanges of experience in governance and deliver more tangible outcomes through practical cooperation, he said, calling for taking profound and concrete measures in building a China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future.
Xi called for the two sides to deepen practical cooperation by implementing their intergovernmental economic and trade cooperation plan, diversifying traded goods and fostering new growth drivers such as digital trade and cross-border e-commerce.
He called for the high-quality construction of the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, describing it as a "major transportation artery" carrying the development aspirations of people across the region.
The two sides should also modernize border crossings and strengthen "soft connectivity" in institutions, standards and rules, he said.
Xi urged more landmark projects in renewable energy and resource recycling, as well as efforts to implement cooperation documents on green minerals and expand collaboration across entire industrial chains.
He also called for facilitating personnel exchanges and expanding cooperation among young people, as well as media, tourism, sports, healthcare and subnational exchanges, to further consolidate public support for China-Kyrgyzstan friendship.
The two sides should expand law enforcement and security cooperation, jointly combat the "three forces" of terrorism, separatism and extremism, as well as drug trafficking and transnational crime, and work together to safeguard regional peace and stability, Xi said.
China supports Kyrgyzstan in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs and is willing to strengthen coordination with the country within the United Nations framework, he said.
Xi called on the two countries to jointly implement the four global initiatives, oppose hegemonism and power politics, uphold true multilateralism, safeguard international fairness and justice, and promote a more just and equitable global governance system.
As founding members of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, China and Kyrgyzstan should advance the implementation of the outcomes of last year's Tianjin summit, promote common development in the region and take the SCO's development to a new level, said Xi, who is also in Bishkek for this year's SCO summit.
Japarov said the signing of the treaty on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation will open up broader prospects for bilateral relations.
"The People's Republic of China is an important priority in Kyrgyzstan's foreign policy, and our main trade and investment partner. China is our good neighbor, close friend and time-tested, reliable partner," Japarov told Xi.
Japarov also said that Kyrgyzstan is willing to expand cooperation with China in trade and investment, connectivity, scientific and technological innovation, energy, minerals and the green economy, while strengthening exchanges in education, healthcare, culture and youth affairs.
Kyrgyzstan is ready to work with China to combat the "three forces" and safeguard regional security, he said.
Japarov also expressed his country's willingness to strengthen coordination with China through multilateral platforms, including the UN, the SCO, the China-Central Asia mechanism and the World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Organization.
During the talks, Japarov, on behalf of the Kyrgyz government and people, extended his deep sympathies over the mudslide disaster in Gyirong county of China's Xizang autonomous region.
Xi thanked him and said the Communist Party of China and the Chinese government are making every effort to search for missing Chinese and foreign nationals, relocate affected residents, treat the injured and guard against secondary disasters. China has also sent rescuers to Nepal and provided emergency assistance, he said.
Earlier on Monday morning, Xi and his wife, Peng Liyuan, arrived by car at Yntymak Ordo, the Kyrgyz presidential administration building, under the escort of a Kyrgyz cavalry guard. They were warmly received by Japarov and his wife, Aigul Japarova.
mojingxi@chinadaily.com.cn