TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Remarks on August 12, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-12

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260812_12002972.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xinhua News Agency: A magnitude 7.4 earthquake hit Colombia on the night of August 10, Beijing time. As of today, the earthquake has killed over 100 people and left thousands more injured. What is China’s comment? (Similar question from Telesur)
Guo Jiakun: President Xi Jinping has sent a message of condolences to Colombian President Abelardo de la Espriella, expressing deep condolences over the lives lost and sincere sympathies to the bereaved families and the injured. We believe that led by the Colombian government under the leadership of President Abelardo de la Espriella, the Colombian people will pull together and recover and rebuild soon.
China stands ready to see what we can do to help in suitable ways in light of Colombia’s need.
As of this moment, there has been no report of Chinese nationals injured or killed in the earthquake. The Chinese embassy in Colombia is doing all it can to verify the safety of Chinese nationals in the quake zone and will actively provide necessary assistance. We advise Chinese nationals in Colombia to exercise caution against possible secondary quake hazards.
People’s Daily: Yesterday at the Conference on Disarmament, the U.S. and certain countries made a joint statement, alleging that recent missile testing activity in the Pacific area did not follow the “standard practices” to provide advance notice, which increases the risk of miscalculation and undermines stability in the region, and that relevant countries should implement the Hague Code of Conduct Against Ballistic Missile Proliferation. It is believed that the joint statement is directed at China’s test fire of a submarine-launched ballistic missile in July. What is China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: The so-called joint statement by the U.S. and certain countries at the Conference on Disarmament, which brandished the Hague Code of Conduct Against Ballistic Missile Proliferation and alluded to China’s missile test launch, was driven solely by political motives and fully reveals their hypocrisy and double standards.
China urges relevant countries to stop abusing multilateral arms control mechanisms, replace irrational confrontation with sincere dialogue and create conditions necessary for enhancing dialogue and exchanges in the area of arms control.
EFE: It’s reported that China’s auto company SAIC Motor plans to set up in Spain’s Ferrol its first factory in Europe, but due to the project’s proximity to sensitive military and ship-building facilities, the Spanish government is evaluating the investment from economic, industrial, employment and national security perspectives. What is China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: China noted that the central and local governments of Spain have made positive comments about the project. China stands ready to continue deepening practical cooperation with Spain under the principles of mutual respect and mutual benefit. We hope Spain will provide a fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for Chinese businesses.
CGTN: My question is about the border disputes between Cambodia and Thailand. Recently there have been media reports about military equipment cooperation between China and Cambodia. What is China’s response? What is China’s position on the Cambodia-Thailand border disputes?
Guo Jiakun: China has reiterated on multiple occasions that China is a friendly neighbor of both Cambodia and Thailand, and engages in normal military equipment cooperation with both countries. The cooperation does not target a third party and has nothing to do with the border disputes between Cambodia and Thailand. China maintains candid communication with both Cambodia and Thailand on this issue and the two countries are clear about this.
Cambodia and Thailand are and will always be neighbors. Properly settling the border disputes at an early date serves the common and long-term interests of the people of both countries. As a good friend of both countries, China has all along made active efforts to promote talks for peace in our own way and encouraged the two countries to realize a ceasefire at an early date and resume bilateral contacts. We hope Cambodia and Thailand will work in the same direction and resolve their border disputes peacefully through friendly consultation. China stands ready to continue playing a constructive role to this end.
Bloomberg: We see videos on Indian social media claiming stepped up Chinese military activity in the disputed border state. An Indian government spokesman also didn’t deny that a new border incident had occurred. So we’d like to ask if there has been a recent military incident with India and if China has increased its military activity near the state. (Similar question from Reuters)
Guo Jiakun: The China-India border situation is generally stable at the moment. China and India held the 36th meeting of the Working Mechanism for Consultation and Coordination on China-India Border Affairs last week. The two sides agreed to maintain communication via diplomatic and military channels and jointly uphold peace and tranquility in the border areas.
Financial Times: Taiwan’s Mainland Affairs Council put up a notice yesterday, saying it “strongly condemns” Chinese mainland’s navigation drills in waters east of Taiwan island, the drills “infringe on Taiwan’s sovereignty and threaten regional security,” and the moves are intended to create a “false impression” that Beijing has jurisdiction over waters east of Taiwan. What is the foreign ministry’s comment on the notice and also on the drills?
Guo Jiakun: This is not a question on foreign affairs. The Ministry of National Defense of China has released relevant information.