TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 17, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-17

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260917_12024664.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Phoenix TV: The Global Financial Centres Index 40 Report was published yesterday. Hong Kong’s overall ranking maintained third place globally and first place in Asia Pacific. What’s your comment?
Guo Jiakun: With the safeguards of One Country, Two Systems, Hong Kong has witnessed remarkable economic growth. Its leading position as an international financial, shipping and trade center has been further reaffirmed. Hong Kong’s IPO market in the first half of the year had come in second globally, raising around HK$ 203.3 billion. The report reaffirms Hong Kong’s appeal, influence and competitiveness as an international financial hub. It represents yet another vote of confidence in Hong Kong’s unique status and strengths and in the prospects of One Country, Two Systems.
Telesur: Yesterday, here in Beijing, Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Celso Amorim, the Chief Advisor to President Lula, who delivered a letter from the Brazilian president to President Xi Jinping. How does the Chinese government assess the message in the letter? And has the Chinese side responded or sent any message to President Lula?
Guo Jiakun: In recent years, under the strategic guidance of the two presidents, China-Brazil relations have been growing by leaps and bounds, evolving from comprehensive strategic partnership to a community with a shared future. President Xi Jinping and President Lula are in close communication via various ways, demonstrating the high-level political mutual trust between our two countries.
Telesur: I have another question related to the meeting between Wang Yi and Celso Amorim. The two sides also discussed the situation in Latin America. The United States has recently increased the pressure against Brazil, including criticism of its handling of organized crimes and discussions about possible new sanctions against Brazilian Supreme Court justices, as Brazil approaches its 2026 presidential election. How does China view these developments, particularly regarding respect for Brazil’s sovereignty and its electoral process?
Guo Jiakun: China adheres to non-interference in other countries’ internal affairs. We wish Brazil a steady and smooth election.
Beijing Daily: We noticed that on the sidelines of the 63rd session of the Human Rights Council, the Chinese side and the UN Office at Geneva co-hosted an exhibition themed “Accessibility for All” at the Palais des Nations in Geneva. Can you provide more information about the event?
Guo Jiakun: The exhibition brought together more than 300 guests, including UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Volker Türk, permanent representatives of various countries, heads of international organizations, and media representatives. The exhibition offered a comprehensive look at China’s practices in advancing “accessibility for all” in areas such as technology, culture, employment and the rule of law. The event was warmly received with guests trying out cutting-edge smart assistive devices and viewing artworks by persons with disabilities.
Building a barrier-free environment is an important part of human rights protection. In October 2024, the 57th session of the Human Rights Council adopted by consensus a resolution proposed by China, on behalf of 30 countries, titled “Promoting accessibility for the full enjoyment of all human rights by all”. Holding this exhibition is an important step in implementing that resolution. This year marks the first anniversary of the Global Governance Initiative proposed by President Xi Jinping and the third anniversary of the implementation of the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the Building of a Barrier-free Environment. China will once again propose a resolution on accessibility to this session of the Human Rights Council. We stand ready to work with the international community to further enrich practices in human rights protection, improve global human rights governance, and together build a community with a shared future for humanity.
Bloomberg: The U.S. Congress gave final approval to a bill to give President Donald Trump new powers to impose tariffs on countries that purchase Russian petroleum products. We are wondering if the foreign ministry has any comments?
Guo Jiakun: China engages in normal economic and trade cooperation with other countries on the basis of equality and mutual benefit. Such cooperation does not target any third party and shall be free from disruption or coercion from any third party. China opposes long-arm jurisdiction and unilateral sanctions that have no basis in international law and lack UN Security Council mandate.