TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 10, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-10

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260910_12019939.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
AFP: Will Chinese leader travel to India this weekend for the BRICS Summit?
Guo Jiakun: On this question, I have no information to share at the moment.
Reuters: India’s Serious Fraud Office has recommended that China’s Xiaomi be investigated for alleged irregularities in its business model and compliance with foreign investment law. Does the foreign ministry have any comment on that?
Guo Jiakun: I’m not familiar with the specifics. China-India economic and trade cooperation is mutually beneficial in nature. We hope India will provide a fair, just, transparent and non-discriminatory environment for the investment and operation of companies of all countries in India.
NBC: At his meeting with the U.S. Ambassador David Perdue the other week, Foreign Minister Wang Yi urged both sides to “eliminate interference and overcome obstacles” for high-level engagements between the two countries. Is there any example of “obstacle” that the Chinese side believes is within the U.S. ability to tackle or otherwise, in general, are both sides, from their most recent communications, making some progress in dealing with these “obstacles”?
Guo Jiakun: China released a readout on Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s meeting with U.S. Ambassador to China David Perdue. Head-of-state diplomacy plays an irreplaceable role in providing strategic guidance to bilateral relations. China and the U.S. are in communication regarding interactions between the two heads of state within the year.
Global Times: It is reported that in a media briefing, the U.S. embassy in Panama introduced a pilot AI supply chain credentialing and provenance platform in Panama, the first of its kind in the world. The U.S. said the project was under evaluation. Some media commented that by verifying the origin, custody, and compliance status of cargo for AI infrastructure, semiconductors, and critical minerals, the project in essence serves the U.S. control of tech industrial and supply chains and tech blockade of China. What’s your comment?
Guo Jiakun: We noticed relevant reports. The development of AI bears on the common welfare of all humanity. All parties should jointly promote the open and inclusive development of AI for good and for all. Exclusive groupings and geopolitical calculations are not conducive to technological development and progress in LAC countries and the rest of the Global South. China will work with LAC countries and other parties to jointly build a just and equitable global AI governance system, and develop AI for the good of people worldwide.
Reuters: Nepal is planning to ask wealthier countries and agencies for financial help this week. It has said that they should contribute to the US$5 billion that’s needed for the rebuilding following the flooding. Has Nepal asked China for financial help and does China have any plans to contribute?
Guo Jiakun: After the sudden mudslide struck the China-Nepal border areas, while urgently carrying out rescue and relief efforts at home, China immediately reached out to Nepal to support its emergency response and disaster relief. China and Nepal are traditional friends and close neighbors. We stand ready to assist Nepal in post-disaster reconstruction to the best of our capability based on its needs. We believe the Nepali people will overcome difficulties and rebuild their homes soon under the leadership of their government.