TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning’s Regular Press Conference on September 8, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-08

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260908_12018516.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CCTV: Could you update us on China’s assistance for Nepal’s disaster relief efforts?
Mao Ning: To support Nepal’s rescue and relief efforts, China sent out this morning the fourth batch of emergency relief supplies, including equipment for transportation and lighting and mortuary supplies. Across China, help is on the way to Nepal. China Foundation for Rural Development has sent people to the affected communities in Nepal to set up temporary shelters and provide daily necessities and basic medical services. The Chinese Enterprises Association in Nepal recently delivered the first batch of funds donated for relief operations.
China will continue standing firmly with Nepal to overcome this challenging time together.
RT: The Japanese government recently asked Russia to remove the monument commemorating the victory over Japan’s militarism, saying that this issue affects the feelings of the Japanese people. And Japan also claimed that the “Enemy State Clauses” in the UN Charter are obsolete. How does China view these comments made by the Japanese government on WWII history and postwar international order?
Mao Ning: To view and treat history correctly is a key gauge of Japan’s commitment to peaceful development. Japan joined the UN after admitting to its militarist crimes and recognizing the UN Charter in its entirety. The “Enemy State Clauses” in the Charter, a special set of rules for WWII defeated states, are still valid today.
This year marks the 80th anniversary of the opening of the Tokyo Trials. The Japanese side should use history as a mirror, make a clean break with militarism, and earn trust from its Asian neighbors and the rest of the world with concrete actions.
China-Arab TV: Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs of Qatar Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani is on a visit to China from September 7 to 8. Can you elaborate on the goals and significance of this visit? Specifically, how does China view the timing of this visit, and what are the outcomes of the bilateral talks?
Mao Ning: China and Qatar are strategic partners. China highly values its relations with Qatar. Qatari Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Sheikh Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani is on a visit to China. Yesterday, Premier Li Qiang met with him for in-depth exchange of views on bilateral relations. China looks to the visit as an opportunity to work for new progress in bilateral relations. On more details about the visit, we will release timely readouts. Please check back for updates.
Beijing Youth Daily: We noted that China is hosting a Workshop on AI Capacity-Building in Beijing. Could you share with us more details? What’s China’s view on AI capacity building?
Mao Ning: In the 2026 World AI Conference & High-Level Meeting on Global AI Governance, President Xi Jinping announced that in the next five years, China will provide developing countries with 5,000 opportunities in AI training and seminar programs. To ensure its early implementation, China is hosting once again a Workshop on AI Capacity-Building in Peking University from September 7 to 12.
As part of the continued efforts to implement the AI Capacity-Building Action Plan for Good and for All, China established the World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Organization, in an effort to make relevant technologies and services more accessible, and help Global South countries find a path to AI development suited to their needs. We will work with various parties to make AI a lasting source of benefits and a major driving force for the welfare of all humanity.
AFP: India is scheduled to host a BRICS summit this weekend. Can the foreign ministry confirm who will be attending on China’s behalf? Secondly, what are China’s expectations for this BRICS summit?
Mao Ning: China sets great store by BRICS cooperation. We support India in hosting a successful BRICS summit this year. For your specific questions, I don’t have more information to offer at the moment.
China Daily: It’s reported that Lai Ching-te claimed at an event that China is contorting UNGA Resolution 2758. Taiwan is a “sovereign independent nation.” The resolution only addresses the People’s Republic of China’s representation at the UN and has nothing to do with Taiwan. What is China’s comment on this?
Mao Ning: There is but one China in the world, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory. This is an unshakable fact grounded in both history and law. The Cairo Declaration issued by China, the U.S. and the UK in 1943 stated in explicit terms that Taiwan is a territory that Japan had stolen and shall be restored to China. The Potsdam Proclamation in 1945 reaffirmed that the terms of the Cairo Declaration shall be carried out. This series of instruments with legal effect under international law have all clearly affirmed China’s sovereignty over Taiwan. UNGA Resolution 2758 solemnly reaffirmed the one-China principle, which “decides to restore all its rights to the People’s Republic of China and to recognize the representatives of its Government as the only legitimate representatives of China to the United Nations.” From political, legal and procedural aspects, the resolution resolved once and for all the question of the representation of the whole of China, including Taiwan, in the UN. It made clear that there is only one seat of China in the United Nations, and there is no such thing as “two Chinas” or “one China, one Taiwan.”
Taiwan has never been a country and will never be a country. The Lai Ching-te authorities’ deliberate distortion of UNGA Resolution 2758 once again revealed their separatist nature for “Taiwan independence.” Their rhetoric will not change the historical and legal fact that the two sides of the Taiwan Strait belong to one and the same China, nor will it undermine the international community’s steadfast commitment to one China.