TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 3, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-03

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260903_12015816.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
At the invitation of Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi, Secretary of Foreign Affairs of Mexico Roberto Velasco Álvarez will visit China from September 6 to 7.
CCTV: Yesterday, President Xi Jinping successfully concluded his state visit to Egypt. Can you share more information about this visit?
Guo Jiakun: This is President Xi Jinping’s first state visit to Egypt in 10 years. As this year marks the 70th anniversary of the establishment of China-Egypt diplomatic relations, the visit carries great significance in building on the past achievements and charting the future of our bilateral ties. During the visit, President Xi Jinping held talks with President El-Sisi and had an in-depth exchange of views on China-Egypt relations, bilateral cooperation across the board, and international and regional issues of mutual interest.
President Xi pointed out that in recent years, the China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership has realized leapfrog development. Faced with the changing and turbulent international and regional situation, the two countries should support each other, deepen cooperation, and continue to build a China-Egypt community with a shared future. He emphasized that the two sides should firmly support each other, maintain the momentum of high-level exchanges, intensify exchanges and cooperation across different areas and levels, and strengthen the exchange and mutual learning of governance experience; the two sides should advance mutually beneficial cooperation, enhance synergy between development strategies, unleash cooperation potential in traditional areas, and foster new cooperation highlights in areas such as green energy; the two sides should promote people-to-people exchanges by expanding exchanges and cooperation across the board in areas such as culture and education, and increasing the flow of personnel, in order to boost connectivity between the two peoples; the two sides should strengthen security cooperation by jointly combating transnational crime, deepening international cooperation against corruption, and firmly supporting each other’s counter-terrorism efforts, so as to safeguard the two countries’ common security; and the two sides should enhance international and multilateral collaboration by coordinating and cooperating more closely at multilateral platforms such as the United Nations and BRICS, and jointly advancing the building of the China-Arab States Cooperation Forum and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, to oppose unilateralism and bullying acts together, and promote a more just and equitable global governance system.
President Xi made a four-point proposal on improving the common security of the Middle East. First, unleashing the internal momentum of regional common security. The people in the Middle East should be the masters of their own affairs. Regional countries should be supported in strengthening dialogue on peace and security. Second, advancing the comprehensive governance of regional common security. The many highly interrelated hotspot issues in the Middle East require comprehensive solutions. Third, cementing the development foundation of regional common security. Lasting stability and security in the Middle East relies fundamentally on development. Fourth, enhancing international coordination on regional common security. The UN Charter and international law serve as the basic guidelines for handling Middle East affairs. The UN should be supported in playing a tangible role in regional affairs.
After the talks, the two presidents jointly witnessed the signing of multiple cooperation documents in areas including Belt and Road cooperation, artificial intelligence, economy and trade, and industrial and supply chain cooperation. The two sides issued the Joint Statement on Deepening the China-Egypt Comprehensive Strategic Partnership. During the visit, the two sides also signed more than 20 cooperation documents in areas such as digital economy, science and technology, education, and transport.
Pheonix TV: Yesterday, you said that China was preparing the third batch of relief supplies for Nepal. Could you share with us the latest progress? What cooperation has been carried out between China and Nepal on meteorological monitoring and disaster early-warning?
Guo Jiakun: The third batch of emergency relief supplies from China to Nepal has been sent this morning, including tents, blankets, mortuary refrigerators, medical protective suit and satellite communication equipment. China also sent a second group of DNA forensic experts to assist Nepal. The Xizang Autonomous Region has sent two Bailey bridges to Nepal. The Red Cross Society of China and China Foundation for Rural Development donated emergency relief supplies to Nepal. Associations of overseas Chinese and Chinese companies in Nepal have also offered support and donations. China will continue to provide emergency assistance and conduct international search and rescue cooperation in light of Nepal’s needs.
In the wake of the disaster, China’s meteorological, water resources and other authorities have conducted close cooperation with relevant Nepali authorities in sharing monitoring information and disaster response. The China Meteorological Administration (CMA) established immediate contact with the Department of Hydrology and Meteorology of Nepal. The two sides have held weather consultations via video link and shared information in real time. The CMA urgently developed a customized cloud edition of MAZU system and delivered it to Nepal for trial use to provide meteorological support for Nepal’s rescue and relief efforts. China’s Ministry of Water Resources has continuously shared with Nepal information on hydrological monitoring, early-warnings and forecasts. Nepal expressed deep appreciation to China for standing side by side with it in responding to the disaster and providing vital support for its relief efforts, and stated that this reflects the great friendship between the two neighbors. China will continue to enhance cooperation with Nepal in related areas and strongly support Nepal in its emergency rescue and relief efforts.
Xinhua News Agency: You just announced the upcoming visit by Mexican Secretary of Foreign Affairs Roberto Velasco Álvarez. How does China view the current bilateral ties with Mexico? What does China expect from the visit?
Guo Jiakun: Mexico is a major country in Latin America and an important emerging market. China and Mexico are comprehensive strategic partners. Over the past five decades since the establishment of diplomatic ties, China-Mexico relations have continued to develop in depth, with fruitful exchanges and cooperation across the board and close coordination and collaboration in international and regional affairs.
The upcoming visit will mark Mr. Velasco’s first visit to China since he took office in April. Through the visit, China hopes that the two sides will have an in-depth exchange of views on bilateral relations and international and regional issues of common interest, further enhance political mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation, promote the steady growth of China-Mexico relations, and deliver more benefits to both peoples.
Reuters: Among the 21 dead already found on the Chinese side of the disaster so far, have their identifies been verified and are there foreign nationals among the deceased?
Guo Jiakun: The authorities of the Xizang Autonomous Region shared relevant information at their press briefings. We will continue communicating and coordinating with relevant parties to properly verify their identities and handle follow-up matters.
Global Times: The 2026 defense white paper recently issued by Japan’s Ministry of Defense (MoD) claimed that Japan will further seek “enemy base strike capability.” The MoD also requested a record 8.89 trillion yen for fiscal year 2027. Comments say that Japan is stepping up effort to break free from postwar pacifism, abandon the “exclusively defense-oriented” policy and seek offensive capability. But some say that Japan has the right to become a “normal country” and develop military strength. Today marks the 81st anniversary of the victory of the Chinese People’s War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. Do you think Japan is challenging the outcomes of WWII victory? How will China respond?
Guo Jiakun: The designation of the Victory Day of the Chinese People's War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression is to remember the profound suffering that Japanese militarist aggression imposed on the people of China and the rest of the world, to remind the public not to forget history, and to uphold the outcomes of WWII victory and postwar international order.
Over the years, Japanese right-wing forces have tried to turn the verdict on the history of aggression, and break free from the postwar international arrangements and their international obligations. It needs to be stressed that a series of international instruments including the Cairo Declaration, the Potsdam Proclamation and Japan’s Instrument of Surrender have affirmed in legal terms Japan’s status as a defeated state, and explicitly stipulated the obligations of defeated states, including eradicating militarism, abolishing military industries, dismantling war capability, and not rearming for war. These postwar international arrangements help uphold historical truth and international justice, set up an institutional line of defense against the resurrection of militarism, and embody the outcomes of the victory of the World Anti-Fascist War.
Our solemn message to Japanese right-wing forces: the right way forward for Japan is to fulfill its international obligations, fully remove the pernicious influence of militarism, and keep to peaceful development. China will stand together with peace-loving countries in the world to firmly hold back the malevolent emergence of Japanese neo-militarism under the pretext of making Japan a “normal country,” and prevent it from wreaking havoc to the region and beyond.
Bloomberg: Some in Nepal are demanding climate compensation from the world’s biggest emitters of greenhouse gases. This would be the U.S., India and China. This comes after the deadly flood that killed many people. Would the foreign ministry like to comment?
Guo Jiakun: Climate change is a global challenge that requires the collective efforts of all parties. China has been a steadfast actor and major contributor in promoting global green development. We are making active and sound efforts towards the carbon peak and neutrality goals and expected to make the world’s biggest cut in carbon emission intensity. As the largest developing country, China firmly upholds the legitimate and lawful rights and interests of the developing world, strives for a fair and equitable global climate governance system for win-win cooperation, and provides assistance to other developing countries to the best of its capability via South-South cooperation.
China and Nepal are a community with a shared future linked by mountains and rivers. And China is also severely affected by this cross-border disaster. We are ready to strengthen cooperation with Nepal and the rest of the international community to jointly prevent and mitigate the negative impact of climate change.
NHK: The Japan-China Friendship Parliamentarians’ Union is reportedly considering sending a delegation to China this month, which consists of young lawmakers from both the ruling and opposition parties. How does the Chinese side view this initiative and what’s your expectation？
Guo Jiakun: Some visionary people in Japan are deeply concerned over the current state of China-Japan relations and wish to make an effort to improve bilateral ties. We are ready to engage with them in the hope of enhancing mutual understanding and trust as long as they abide by the four political documents, support a friendly China policy, and cherish China-Japan relations. We call on those running the government of Japan to listen to and value the voice of reason at home and create the conditions necessary for normal exchanges between China and Japan with concrete actions.
Reuters: The president of Palau and current chair of the regional Pacific Islands Forum said today he was hoping to gain consensus from member nations to condemn a Chinese missile test recently held in the region. What is the foreign ministry’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: China has more than once made clear its position on the test launch. Palau has repeatedly raised this issue in an ill-intentioned attempt to hijack the position of other member states of the Pacific Islands Forum. It will not have its way.
China is committed to peaceful development and a national defense policy that is defensive in nature. We never engage in military expansion. China stands ready to work with South Pacific countries to contribute to peace, stability, development and prosperity of the South Pacific region.
Bloomberg: U.S. Energy Secretary Chris Wright has said that China won’t have any debt claims to the revenue from new oil production in Venezuela. If this happens, can you provide more details of how China might protect its interests in Venezuela? Does China feel like it can rely on international law to protect its interests in this case? Finally, are you worried at all that the U.S. attitude on oil and Venezuela might set a precedent and encourage Washington to seize Chinese assets in Latin America or elsewhere?
Guo Jiakun: China-Venezuela cooperation is protected by international law and laws of both countries. The cooperation does not concern any third party and should not be subjected to interference by any third party. China’s lawful rights and interests in Venezuela must be protected.
Shenzhen TV: Viet Nam’s foreign ministry spokesperson reportedly said in a recent statement that Viet Nam has sovereignty over the Paracels and reiterated that “all foreign activities in the Paracel Islands, including at Ba Ba Island and at Hai Sam Reef, conducted without Viet Nam’s permission are completely illegal, null and void.” The country has made serious representations and demands an immediate end to such activities and that they not be repeated, she added. What’s China’s comment on this?
Guo Jiakun: Xisha Qundao is China’s territory without any dispute. It is within China’s sovereign rights to conduct necessary construction on its own territory. There is no room for unwarranted accusations from Viet Nam.
AFP: The coast guard of Taiwan said today that it deployed vessels to monitor two Chinese ships operating in waters to its east, saying it firmly rejects China’s campaign of “law enforcement in name, jurisdictional expansion in practice.” Does the Chinese foreign ministry have a reaction to this?
Guo Jiakun: This is not a question about foreign affairs.