TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 1, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-01

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260901_12014104.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China News Agency: Could you share with us details about President Xi Jinping’s ongoing state visit to Kyrgyzstan?
Guo Jiakun: This is President Xi Jinping’s first state visit to Kyrgyzstan in seven years. During the visit, President Xi Jinping held talks and small group discussions with President Japarov. They had an in-depth exchange of views on bilateral relations, cooperation in various fields, and international and regional issues of mutual interest. Together, they drew a new blueprint for building a China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future.
President Xi Jinping noted that China-Kyrgyzstan relations have grown by leaps and bounds in recent years with fruitful cooperation across the board that has contributed to the development of both countries and benefited both peoples. The robust relations have also helped advance regional peace, stability and prosperity. China is ready to work with Kyrgyzstan to better synergize development strategies, deepen experience sharing on governance and deliver more tangible and on-the-ground results of practical cooperation, so as to expand the depth and substance of the China-Kyrgyzstan community with a shared future.
President Xi Jinping stressed that the steady and sustained development of China-Kyrgyzstan relations is underpinned by high-level political mutual trust and unwavering mutual support. The signing of the treaty between China and Kyrgyzstan on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation will provide an important legal foundation for the two countries to enjoy lasting friendship and unwavering mutual support. China and Kyrgyzstan should deepen bilateral practical cooperation, pursue high-quality cooperation on the China-Kyrgyzstan-Uzbekistan railway, a transportation artery carrying the region’s aspirations for development, and carry out more flagship projects in areas such as renewable energy and resource recycling and utilization. The two sides should work together to ensure the success of the Belt and Road Joint Laboratory, step up cooperation in AI and other areas, and further promote personnel exchanges, so as to steadily consolidate public support for China-Kyrgyzstan friendship. China and Kyrgyzstan need to expand law enforcement and security cooperation, jointly fight against the three forces of terrorism, separatism and extremism, and combat drugs and transnational crimes, so as to uphold regional peace and stability through concerted efforts. China supports Kyrgyzstan in playing a greater role in international and regional affairs, and will work with Kyrgyzstan to further enhance coordination under the UN framework, jointly implement the four global initiatives, and make the global governance system more just and equitable.
Following their talks, the two presidents signed the two countries’ joint declaration on the high-quality development of the comprehensive strategic partnership for the new era and the treaty on permanent good-neighborliness, friendship and cooperation. They witnessed the exchange of bilateral cooperation documents in areas including investment, transport, customs and sister-city relations. During the visit, the two sides signed more than 20 cooperation documents in areas such as science and technology, education, people-to-people exchanges and media.
CCTV: Yesterday you shared information about China’s relief assistance to Nepal. Can you update us on China’s plan of further support to Nepal?
Guo Jiakun: To provide emergency assistance to Nepal’s disaster-hit areas and carry out international rescue and relief cooperation is an important political decision of China and embodies our friendship with Nepal. The second batch of relief supplies provided by China to Nepal is expected to be sent later today. These supplies include much-needed items such as drones, equipment and reagent for DNA testing, and equipment for water purification and lighting. Chinese DNA testing experts are about to travel to the disaster-hit areas to assist Nepal in their operations.
China will stand firmly together with Nepal and jointly overcome the difficulties as part of our efforts to carry forward the traditional friendship as neighboring countries.
TASS: Yesterday, during his meeting with President Xi in Bishkek, President Putin said that Russia is ready to make the visa-free regime permanent if the Chinese side considers this possible and useful. What is the foreign ministry’s comment on this?
Guo Jiakun: Mutual visa exemption speaks to the high-level strategic mutual trust between China and Russia and helps further facilitate cross-border travel, deepen the friendship between our two peoples, and promote exchanges and cooperation in various fields.
Reuters: We reported today that as part of President Trump’s new oil deal with Venezuela, the U.S. oil company, which the U.S. government has a sizable stake in, will take over several oil fields in Venezuela that were previously owned by Chinese companies, including state-owned companies, who have invested in Venezuela for many many years. What is MOFA’s response to this decision?
Guo Jiakun: We noted relevant reports. China always advocates that relations between countries should be handled in accordance with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and economic and trade cooperation between countries should follow the principle of equality, mutual benefit and win-win cooperation. Also I would like to stress that China-Venezuela cooperation is protected by international law and laws of both countries. China’s lawful rights and interests in Venezuela must be protected.
Ukrinform News Agency: Finnish President Alexander Stubb said in an interview that China’s foreign minister assured him that China would not allow Russia to use nuclear weapons in the war in Ukraine. How does the foreign ministry comment on such a statement by the Finnish president?
Guo Jiakun: China has released information on Foreign Minister Wang Yi’s visit to Finland. China’s position on the Ukraine crisis and stance on nuclear-related issues are consistent and clear. We remain committed to promoting peace talks and a political settlement of the crisis.
Beijing Daily: Last September, President Xi Jinping solemnly put forward the Global Governance Initiative (GGI), which received broad and positive responses from the international community. Today marks the first anniversary of President Xi’s proposal of the GGI. Could you please share with us the progress and outcomes achieved by the Initiative over the past year?
Guo Jiakun: One year ago today, at the pivotal juncture marking the 80th anniversary of the United Nations, President Xi Jinping put forward the Global Governance Initiative, calling on countries around the world to work together for a more just and equitable global governance system. Over the past year, with its increasing popularity, the Initiative has evolved from a Chinese proposal into international practice, demonstrating strong vitality, influence, and appeal.
The GGI has forged broad international consensus. It is fully aligned with the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and has quickly won the support and positive responses of nearly 160 countries and international organizations. More than 60 countries have joined the Group of Friends of Global Governance, engaging in intensive coordination on a wide range of global governance issues. BRICS and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization have continued to grow, and the representation and voice of the Global South have continued to increase.
China is committed to contributing its wisdom to the reform and improvement of global governance. President Xi Jinping delivered important remarks at such events as the Virtual BRICS Summit, the Global Leaders’ Meeting on Women, and the World Artificial Intelligence Conference, providing strategic guidance for global governance to keep pace with the times. China hosted the Lanting Forum on Improving Global Governance to Build a Community with a Shared Future for Humanity, and successively released the Concept Paper on the Global Governance Initiative and a white paper on more just and equitable global governance, further elaborating on China’s visions, principles, and positions on global governance, as well as its action plan. The nine priorities proposed by China for advancing global governance reform have received broad support from the United Nations and the wider international community.
We have taken robust actions to translate the GGI into concrete results. The International Organization for Mediation has officially commenced operations and successfully resolved its first international maritime dispute. The World Data Organization and the World Artificial Intelligence Cooperation Organization have been established in China one after another. At the UN Climate Summit, China announced its 2035 Nationally Determined Contributions.
Recently, the official website of the Foreign Ministry launched a dedicated section on the GGI. We welcome everyone to visit the section at any time to follow and support the latest progress in China’s efforts to advance the implementation of the Initiative.
The fruitful outcomes achieved by the GGI over the past year have made it abundantly clear that extensive consultation, joint contribution, and shared benefits represent the common aspiration of all, that upholding multilateralism is a shared consensus of all, and that building a more just and equitable global governance system is a common expectation of all. China will continue to firmly uphold the UN-centered international system, actively support the robust development of various multilateral and regional cooperation mechanisms, and jointly work for the effective implementation of the GGI. This autumn, we will host the Global Governance Forum in Xiong’an. We look forward to welcoming people from various sectors of the international community to discuss the reform and improvement of global governance and work together for a community with a shared future for humanity.
The Sydney Morning Herald: The mudslide is a major catastrophe that has affected many countries’ citizens. Nepal has let in many journalists to cover the situation. Why has China so far refused access to foreign journalists, preventing us from joining Chinese state media reporters on the ground in covering this issue from a disaster zone on the Tibetan side? And secondly, do you have any further information about the Australian who has recently been found alive on the Tibetan side?
Guo Jiakun: On your first question, the roads and communication are cut off in the mudslide-affected areas, and there are major safety risks of secondary disasters. Intensive rescue and relief operations are still underway. China will share timely updates about the disaster and rescue and relief operations.
On your second question, as I just said, at present, China is making every effort to search for and rescue Chinese and foreign nationals who are still unaccounted for. At the same time, we maintain close communication with foreign embassies in China to jointly identify missing foreign nationals and properly handle follow-up matters. As for the individual case you mentioned, I’ll need to check with competent authorities before getting back to you.
Bloomberg: Did Chinese diplomats in the Solomon Islands have any contact with the politicians there who moved a motion of no confidence against Prime Minister Matthew Wale? New Zealand’s foreign minister Winston Peters insinuated that outside forces were involved in that action, which was seen as a reference to China. What’s the foreign ministry’s response on this situation that is developing in the Solomon Islands?
Guo Jiakun: On your first question, China adheres to non-interference in other countries’ internal affairs. We have never had any interest in, nor will we ever interfere in any way with the internal affairs of other countries.
On your second question, the relevant remarks from the New Zealand side are completely unfounded. China has always adhered to the principle of respecting the sovereignty and independence, will, culture and solidarity of Pacific island countries in developing relations with them. We have no interest in and have never interfered in the internal affairs of other countries.
AFP: On President Xi Jinping’s visit to Egypt, can the foreign ministry share any more details about the topics leaders will discuss when they meet for talks? How will China present its position on the Iran war as well as recent promises by the United States to expand sanctions targeting Iran’s economy, which may impact Chinese and Egyptian interests?
Guo Jiakun: As we previously stated following the announcement of President Xi Jinping’s upcoming state visit to Egypt, Egypt is the first Arab and African country to establish diplomatic relations with New China. In recent years, under the strategic guidance of President Xi Jinping and President El-Sisi, the two countries have deepened political mutual trust, achieved fruitful outcomes in cooperation across various fields, and engaged in increasingly frequent people-to-people exchanges and close and effective coordination on multilateral occasions. China-Egypt comprehensive strategic partnership has grown by leaps and bounds, and been at its best in history, setting a stellar example of solidarity, coordination, and mutual benefit among developing countries. This visit marks President Xi Jinping’s first state visit to Egypt in 10 years. As we are celebrating the 70th anniversary of the establishment of China-Egypt diplomatic relations, this visit carries great significance in building on the past achievements and charting the future. During the visit, President Xi Jinping will hold talks with President El-Sisi. They will have an in-depth exchange of views on China-Egypt relations and international and regional issues of mutual interest. Through the visit, China looks forward to working with Egypt to carry forward traditional friendship, render each other firm support, expand mutually beneficial cooperation, and bolster each other’s modernization, so that we can jointly draw a new chapter of China-Egypt relations and make positive contributions to peace and stability in the region and beyond.
Reuters: The U.S. and New Zealand have announced that they are planning to jointly develop a deep sea port on a former military base in the Cook Islands. What is the ministry’s response?
Guo Jiakun: Cooperation between countries should be conducive to maintaining regional peace and stability.
Reuters: On Nepal, how closely is China keeping Nepal informed of the upstream efforts to drain the lakes formed by last week’s mudslide? Could you give us some details about the communication?
Guo Jiakun: China and Nepal have maintained smooth cooperation in fields including meteorology, water conservancy, and disaster prevention and mitigation. In the wake of the disaster, China has maintained sound communication with Nepal on the information sharing for search and rescue and the prevention of secondary disasters, continuously provided meteorological and hydrological information, conducted professional consultations, and sent relevant early warnings. China will continue to strongly support Nepal in disaster relief, strengthen cooperation in disaster prevention and mitigation, and safeguard the common interests of the two peoples.
Reuters: About the Power of Siberia II pipeline, are there any discussions that happened in regard to that between the Chinese and Russian leaders?
Guo Jiakun: China has released information on the meeting between President Xi and President Putin. China and Russia have cooperated closely in energy and other various fields under the strategic guidance of the two leaders. China stands ready to work with Russia to further deepen practical cooperation under the principle of mutual respect and mutual benefit.
**************************************************
ABC: According to Australia’s Department of Foreign Affairs and Trade, an Australian believed to be missing after the mudslide has been found alive. Can you share more details on the time, location and the physical conditions of the person? What channels has China used to share the information with the Australian side? (Similar question from The Sydney Morning Herald during the press conference)
Guo Jiakun: We’ve learned that this Australian national was not in the hardest-hit area and has got into contact with the Australian Embassy in Beijing. China is continuing the all-out search and rescue for missing Chinese and foreign nationals. We will stay in close communication with foreign embassies in China to jointly identify missing foreign nationals and properly handle follow-up matters.