TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 18, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-18

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260918_12026026.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CGTN: This year marks the 95th anniversary of the September 18 Incident. Quite a few Japanese media and scholars have warned that the security policies of the Sanae Takaichi administration are showing a dangerous tendency of reversing to the prewar path, that the Japanese society is suffering a dismissive attitude toward war, and that modern Japan is heading down a path similar to that of the 1930s and needs to correct course at once. What is China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: Ninety-five years ago today, Japanese militarists launched the aggression against China. They were met by the courageous resistance of the Chinese people. It lifted the curtain of the eastern theater of the World Anti-Fascist War. The September 18 Incident was a war plot long concealed by the Japanese government to the Japanese public. The vast majority of the Japanese people did not learn the truth until the Tokyo Trials, which opened exactly 80 years ago. The increasingly prevalent historical denialism in Japan is truly troubling and the danger is self-evident. Even today, Japanese textbooks continue to downplay the nature of Japan’s aggression, and right-wing forces in Japan even use artificial intelligence to systemically filter prewar archives and records of the Tokyo Trials, in an attempt to whitewash Japan’s war crimes and entrench a distorted view of history. Denialism not just reflects serious regression in Japan’s perception of history, but also indicates alarmingly an organized attempt to turn back the wheel of history with clear political motives. The real purpose is to keep the Japanese public from the truth, and clear the path for Japan to escape the straitjacket of the postwar system and rearm itself.
To deny the crimes of aggression is to challenge the verdict of history and tear down the postwar international order. We urge the Japanese side to face up to and repent for its history of aggression, and earn the trust of its Asian neighbors and the wider international community through concrete actions. It is absolutely essential for China and all other countries in the region to stay on high alert. Japanese militarism must never be revived, and the tragedies of history must never be repeated. We must work together to uphold the outcomes of the World War II victory and jointly safeguard peace.
Bloomberg: We’re wondering if President Xi will be going to the U.S.? If so, which day will he be going?
Guo Jiakun: China and the U.S. are in communication regarding interactions between the two heads of state within the year.
RIA Novosti: According to media reports, the European Union has asked Chinese authorities to voluntarily cap Chinese hybrid vehicles sales at around 15 percent of the bloc’s market to avoid a trade war. Would the foreign ministry like to comment on this?
Guo Jiakun: I’d refer you to competent authorities for anything specific. Let me stress that China-EU economic and trade relations are mutually beneficial in nature, not a zero-sum competition. Engaging in open cooperation and resolving economic and trade disputes through equal-footed dialogue and consultation serve the common interests of both sides. The development of China’s EV industry provides quality and affordable products for global consumers and contributes to global green and low-carbon transition. We hope the EU will honor its commitments to market openness and free trade, observe WTO rules, and provide a fair, just and non-discriminatory environment for companies of all countries. We will closely follow the EU’s moves and do what is necessary to protect the legitimate and lawful rights and interests of our businesses.
CCTV: It is reported that the National Cultural Heritage Administration of China received 64 pieces of Chinese cultural relics and fossils returned by the Homeland Security Investigations of the United States and Manhattan District Attorney’s Office in Washington and New York on Wednesday and Thursday local time respectively. These antiquities are discovered by the U.S. law enforcement authorities. Could you share more details on that? What’s China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: Since China and the U.S. signed the intergovernmental memorandum of understanding on preventing the illegal entry of Chinese cultural relics into the U.S., our practical cooperation has yielded fruitful outcomes, evidenced by the returning of a total of 700 plus pieces of Chinese cultural relics and art works lost in the U.S. in 20 plus batches. The repatriation marks the latest step to implement the common understandings reached by the two presidents in their meetings in Beijing, and also demonstrates the broad prospects of building a constructive China-U.S. relationship of strategic stability. China and the U.S. should go toward the same direction in the spirit of equality, mutual respect and mutual benefit so as to accomplish more great and concrete things for the good of our two countries and peoples.
AFP: The Philippine Coast Guard said that on Friday morning, a China Coast Guard vessel rammed a Philippine boat near Sabina Shoal, known in Chinese as Xianbin Jiao. We have seen the statement just released by the China Coast Guard. Does the foreign ministry have any specific comments to address to the Philippines regarding this incident?
Guo Jiakun: As you said, China Coast Guard spokesperson has made a statement to share information on the real situation. This morning, an official vessel from the Philippines started provocations and deliberately rammed at the China Coast Guard vessel in the adjacent waters of Xianbin Jiao, Nansha Qundao. Such moves pose a serious threat to the safety of China’s personnel and vessels, and constitute a serious violation of the international law and basic norms governing international relations. The Philippines should immediately stop its infringement activities at sea, and stop spreading false narratives and disinformation. China will continue safeguarding its territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests, and keeping the South China Sea peaceful and stable.