TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian’s Regular Press Conference on August 24, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-24

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260824_12009284.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
As agreed between the two sides, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, Director of the Office of the Central Commission for Foreign Affairs, and China’s Special Representative on the Boundary Question Between China and India Wang Yi will co-chair the 25th Round of Talks Between the Special Representatives on the Boundary Question with India’s Special Representative and National Security Advisor Ajit Doval in Beijing on August 25.
CCTV: Foreign Minister Wang Yi has just concluded a successful visit to Indonesia, where the first Conference of the China-Indonesia Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue Mechanism and the Second Ministerial Meeting of the China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Dialogue were held. Could you give more details about the two meetings?
Lin Jian: The Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue Mechanism is a new mechanism established between China and Indonesia. It provides vital institutional support for deepening bilateral cooperation across the “five pillars” under new circumstances. Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his Indonesian counterpart held a successful first conference. They spoke highly of the progress in cooperation across various fields, and agreed to deepen the alignment of development strategies and launch the formulation of a new five-year action plan for bilateral ties. The two sides agreed to set more ambitious bilateral trade targets and vigorously expand cooperation in new-quality productive forces such as artificial intelligence. The two sides reached an agreement to restart cooperation in fishing, accelerate maritime cooperation and push forward joint development.
Both sides agreed that deepening cooperation in energy and mineral resources serves their common interests, and expressed readiness to jointly build a comprehensive, open and green partnership in this area. China stands ready to better assist Indonesia in transforming its resource advantages into momentum for development, accelerating the country’s industrialization process and benefiting the Indonesian people. Indonesia spoke highly of the contributions made by Chinese companies in Indonesia to local development, noting that the success of Chinese companies is also a success for Indonesia. It expressed readiness to provide Chinese companies with a fair, transparent and friendly business environment.
The China-Indonesia Joint Foreign and Defense Dialogue is the first ministerial-level “2+2” mechanism China has established globally, and this marks the second meeting of the mechanism. The two sides agreed on the need to coordinate the two major tasks of development and security, foster a sense of security partnership, support each other’s core interests, jointly oppose external interference, and strive for greater progress in political security and defense cooperation. Both will safeguard the overall momentum of regional cooperation and maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea, strengthen policy coordination on multilateral platforms, oppose unilateral bullying and power politics, and safeguard international fairness, justice and the legitimate rights and interests of developing countries.
The world is currently at a crossroads between unity and division, and between cooperation and confrontation. As major developing countries and key members of the Global South, China and Indonesia’s efforts to strengthen strategic coordination and deepen solidarity and cooperation bears great significance far beyond the bilateral dimension. The success of China-Indonesia cooperation is also a success for the Global South. Guided by the strategic common understandings reached by the two heads of state, China stands ready to work with Indonesia to effectively translate consensus from the mechanism meetings into outcomes, expand and deepen all-round strategic cooperation, address risks and challenges, bolster respective modernization, and contribute more to stability and prosperity in the region and beyond.
China-Arab TV: King Abdullah II of Jordan is visiting China. We notice that an increasing number of leaders of Arab nations have visited China. China’s influence is on the rise, and China is playing an increasingly important role in the Arab world. What are the outcomes of King Abdullah II’s visit to China? What’s China’s expectation for China-Arab cooperation in the next couple of years?
Lin Jian: China and Jordan enjoy traditional friendship. Under the strategic guidance of President Xi Jinping and King Abdullah II, China-Jordan relations have sustained the momentum of growth, bringing tangible benefits to the two peoples. China will work with Jordan to take the visit as an opportunity to help China-Jordan strategic partnership produce more fruits, and open up new prospects and inject new impetus into growing the bilateral ties. We will release more information on this visit in due course. You are welcome to stay tuned.
In recent years, China-Arab relations enjoy robust development, setting a stellar example of solidarity and cooperation between developing countries. China will work with Arab countries to carry forward traditional friendship, deepen strategic mutual trust, promote mutually beneficial cooperation, and foster closer people-to-people exchanges so as to bring China-Arab relations and cooperation to a new height.
AFP: Sources told AFP and other media outlets that China is weighing a bid to host UN climate talks in 2028. I wonder if you can confirm this or comment on this?
Lin Jian: We do not have information on that for the time being. The Conference of the Parties to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change is an important platform for global climate governance. China will continue its active support for and participation in it.
Beijing Daily: Does China have any comment on the Kurultai elections Kazakhstan held yesterday?
Lin Jian: China congratulates Kazakhstan on holding smooth Kurultai elections yesterday. As a friendly neighbor and permanent comprehensive strategic partner, China supports Kazakhstan in independently following a development path befitting its national conditions, and is glad to see sustained security and economic prosperity in the country. We wish Kazakhstan new and greater achievements in national development.
China values its relations with Kazakhstan and stands ready to work with Kazakhstan to deliver on the important common understandings between the two presidents, deepen all-round mutually beneficial cooperation, and bring the bilateral relations to a new height.
Yonhap News Agency: Today marks the 34th anniversary of ROK-China diplomatic ties. How does China see the significance of this relationship and what are its expectations for bilateral ties going forward?
Lin Jian: Indeed, today marks the 34th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the ROK. Over the past 34 years, our two countries, as friendly neighbors, have become inseparable strategic cooperative partners with all‑round and rapid growth in politics, economy and trade, people‑to‑people and cultural exchanges. Facts have proven that the development of bilateral relations is in keeping with the trend of the times, serves the shared interests of both countries, and contributes to regional peace and development.
At present, China-ROK relations continue to improve and develop along the direction charted by the two heads of state. Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Foreign Minister Wang Yi just paid a visit to the ROK upon invitation, where he had in-depth exchanges with the ROK side on advancing the sound and sustainable development of bilateral ties. China has always placed the ROK high on its agenda for neighborhood diplomacy and stands ready to work with the ROK side to implement the common understandings reached by the two heads of state, bring bilateral strategic cooperative partnership to new heights, and deliver more benefits to the two peoples.
PTI: You just announced the special representative talks between India and China tomorrow. It is a unique, indeed, a very comprehensive mechanism to discuss the overall relations. Maybe you can highlight what are the issues that could be discussed in tomorrow’s talks?
Lin Jian: The Talks Between the Special Representatives of China and India on the Boundary Question are the main channel for negotiations between China and India on the boundary question, and also an important platform for communication between the two sides on issues of mutual interest. In August last year, China and India successfully held the 24th round of talks, during which the two sides had candid and in-depth exchanges of views on the boundary question and reached a number of common understandings. During this round of talks, the two sides will continue the in-depth communication on the boundary question in the spirit of the common understandings between leaders of the two countries to jointly keep the border areas peaceful and tranquil. The two sides will also exchange views on bilateral relations and international and regional issues.
China News Service: We notice that following the UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres’s attendance at the 2026 World AI Conference & High-Level Meeting on Global AI Governance in China, UN Deputy Secretary-General attended a dialogue on AI and human development in Xi’an. Can you share more details?
Lin Jian: From August 20 to 21, a dialogue on Artificial Intelligence and Human Development was held in Xi’an. The event was co-hosted by China’s Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the UN. UN Deputy Secretary-General Amina J. Mohammed attended and addressed the event. The outcomes of the dialogue will be submitted to the 81st Session of the UN General Assembly.
Not long ago, taking a broader view of social progress, President Xi Jinping shared four observations on the opportunities and challenges brought by AI, stressing the need to adhere to the principle of openness and win-win, strengthen risk-awareness, encourage inclusiveness, and advocate solidarity, which are well-received by the international community. The purpose of this event echoes the important statements of President Xi. Representatives from various countries have explored the profound impact of AI on human development through the lenses of history, philosophy and reality.
The attendance of UN Secretary-General and Deputy Secretary-General at international conferences on AI in China fully demonstrates the significance of AI, a cutting-edge technology, for the world, and also reflects that China always supports the UN’s role as the main channel in global AI governance. Xi’an is where the ancient Silk Road begins and where the East meets the West, and embodies the history of mutual learning and harmonious coexistence among civilizations. Such a place can help various parties draw wisdom from the long history, answer the questions of the times brought by AI, and promote the common welfare of all countries.
Participants from various countries noted that in developing AI, it’s important to take a people-centered approach, develop AI for the positive and for good, share the opportunities, and shoulder the responsibilities together. More emphasis should be put on the interests of developing countries and the disadvantaged groups, and AI can be used to empower human development and progress of civilizations.
China will, together with the UN and all countries in the world, make continuous efforts to ensure the open and inclusive development of AI for good and for all so as to better contribute to the common welfare of the international community.
Reuters: The U.S. Treasury Secretary has threatened secondary sanctions against countries that trade or deal with Iran. China has historically been a major buyer of Iranian oil. If the U.S. does impose secondary sanctions tomorrow, what will be the response from China? (Similar question from Bloomberg)
Lin Jian: Sanctions and pressure tactics do no help in resolving issues. They will only lead to escalation that serves no one’s interest. China calls on parties to act rationally and with restraint, and avoid taking any measure that may further escalate tensions or deal a blow to global economic growth and financial stability. They need to return to the right track of political settlement through dialogue and negotiation at an early date. China will closely watch relevant developments and do what is necessary to protect our legitimate rights and interests.
Global Times: A U.S. official in a recent social media post alleged that high‑risk technologies from Chinese tech companies create risks of espionage, cyber‑attacks, and network disruptions, urging U.S. partners across the Western hemisphere to rapidly shift to reliable supply vendors to protect their citizens and sovereignty. Would you like to comment on this?
Lin Jian: The allegations, full of fact-distorting fabrications, are means of blatant tech‑bullying and unilateral coercion. China firmly rejects them.
Chinese tech firms have become well-known for their advanced technologies, competitive pricing and secure and efficient services. When operating overseas, they strictly abide by local laws, regulations and industry norms. In fact, they have won wide recognition and appreciation from local partners and communities, contributed to host‑country socioeconomic growth and job creation, and proven themselves genuinely reliable suppliers. In stark contrast, the U.S. has long engaged in tapping, surveillance, and cyber-attacks across Latin America and the Caribbean, leaving nations there feeling insecure and distrustful of Washington.
We advise the U.S. to stop its political manipulation, stop interfering with sovereign nations’ right to independently choose cooperation partners, and instead contribute to prosperity and stability in Latin America and the Caribbean through concrete actions.
Beijing Youth Daily: Concerning the case that Hong Kong’s High Court convicted the “Hong Kong Alliance” and its former leaders Lee Cheuk-yan, Ho Chun-yan and Chow Hang-tung of inciting subversion, the EU and certain countries including the U.S. have expressed their concerns in their statements and remarks. What’s China’s response?
Lin Jian: Certain countries and institutions used the judicial case to make malicious smears against Hong Kong and its rule of law, and interfered in China’s internal affair. China firmly opposes it and has lodged serious protests.
The platform of “Hong Kong Alliance” is aimed at subverting state power at its core. The facts concerning the defendants’ crimes are clear and the offense has caused serious harm. It’s legitimate and lawful for the government of Hong Kong SAR to combat the activities endangering national security. Hong Kong upholds rule of law. The central government firmly supports the Hong Kong SAR in safeguarding national security and combating activities that endanger national security in accordance with the law.
Hong Kong affairs are purely China’s internal affairs. We urge relevant parties to earnestly respect China’s sovereignty and the rule of law in Hong Kong, and stop the political manipulation and interference in the Hong Kong affairs and China’s internal affairs in any form.
Bloomberg: I would like to ask about the meeting that Vice Foreign Minister Miao Deyu had with Iran’s Deputy Foreign Minister Kazem Gharibabadi in Beijing. Does the ministry have any more details on that meeting?
Lin Jian: China has shared details about the meeting in a readout, which you may refer to. I have nothing to add. China is closely following the situation in the Middle East and Gulf region and has been actively committed to promoting talks for peace. We stand ready to act in the spirit of the four propositions put forward by President Xi Jinping on safeguarding and promoting peace and stability in the Middle East and make continued effort to help restore peace and tranquility to the Middle East at an early date.
Antara: Another question about the China-Indonesia Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue Mechanism. In the past, Indonesia and China had the High-Level Dialogue Cooperation Mechanism, which led to flagship projects such as the Jakarta-Bandung High-Speed Railway. Now China and Indonesia held the China-Indonesia Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue Mechanism. Are there any joint projects similar to the high-speed railway that are expected to become the result from this newly established dialogue mechanism?
Lin Jian: The China‑Indonesia Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue is an important joint measure implementing the consensus between the two heads of state. It aims to deepen practical cooperation across the fields, advance the building of a community with a shared future, and deliver tangible benefits to both peoples. The Jakarta‑Bandung High‑Speed Railway has served over 16 million passengers with safe and smooth operation since its opening. It has improved local transport conditions and made travel easier for residents along the route, and continues to provide momentum for Indonesia’s economic and social development and regional connectivity. China stands ready to work with Indonesia to make full use of the Comprehensive Strategic Dialogue mechanism, advance high‑quality Belt and Road cooperation, produce more cooperation outcomes in infrastructure and other fields, and inject fresh impetus into our respective modernization.