TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian’s Regular Press Conference on August 27, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-27

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260827_12011637.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CCTV: On August 26, a mudslide in Nepal caused heavy casualties and left many missing at Gyirong Port in Gyirong County, Xigaze City of Xizang Autonomous Region. Could you share information on China’s rescue work? Is China in communication with Nepal? Does China have information on the Chinese nationals affected in Nepal and the foreign nationals affected in China?
Lin Jian: In the wake of the disaster, General Secretary Xi Jinping attached high importance to the situation and gave immediate instructions. He stressed that the pressing priority is to go all-out in search and rescue, relocate and look after those facing potential danger, provide urgent treatment to the injured, and minimize casualties. It is imperative to step up monitoring and early warning, ensure sound rescue operations and guard against secondary disasters. Premier Li Qiang also issued instructions, calling for swift verification of the number of missing persons and affected people and all-out rescue and relief efforts to ensure the prompt and orderly evacuation of people in danger. Vice Premier Zhang Guoqing has arrived at the site with officials from relevant departments to oversee the rescue and disaster-response operations.
Relevant Chinese authorities have activated a national level-II emergency response for disaster relief. Xizang Autonomous Region has activated a level-I emergency response for natural disasters. Rescue forces from the military, armed police, border inspection, firefighting, and other relevant departments have rushed to the affected area at the earliest possible time, to join ongoing search and rescue operations. We are confident that under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee, people in the mudslide-hit area will overcome difficulties and rebuild their homes.
The mudslide has caused massive casualties and left many missing in both China and Nepal. The Chinese side extends heartfelt sympathies to the government of Nepal and all those hit by the disaster. The two sides are having close communication and coordinating efforts for the search and rescue. The Chinese side is ready to provide emergency assistance in light of Nepal’s need.
According to the information released so far by the local Chinese authorities, a total of 260 foreign nationals remain unaccounted for in the affected areas, with more specifics pending further verification due to the conditions on the ground. For Chinese rescuers, all lives are precious, regardless of their nationalities. We are communicating with relevant foreign embassies in China to keep them updated. As to the situation on the Nepalese side, nearly 100 Chinese nationals remain missing there. The Chinese Embassy in Nepal is seeking further verification with the Nepalese side and has put out a safety alert. Again we advise Chinese nationals there to move to safety and take precautions against secondary hazards. The Chinese Embassy in Nepal is available at all hours and will do its utmost to assist Chinese nationals in need.
NHK: We have learned that a group of Japanese lawmakers visiting China met today with an official of the International Department of the CPC Central Committee. Could you provide more details about the meeting? Does the foreign ministry have any comment on it?
Lin Jian: Chinese competent authorities will release information on the meeting in due course. The root cause of the serious difficulties in bilateral relations lies in the erroneous remarks and actions on Taiwan and in the fields of military and security made by those running the Japanese government. They should heed and value the voice of reason in Japan, do serious soul-searching, correct the wrongdoings, abide by the four political documents, and safeguard the political foundation of China-Japan relations with concrete actions.
AFP: The U.S. law enforcement on Tuesday announced the seizure of Internet domains, allegedly used by Chinese hackers to target government agencies and critical infrastructure. The Justice Department and FBI said the seized domains were used by a Chinese state-sponsored hacking group, known as “QTFY” and by hacking platforms, known as “QScan” and “QTRouter.” I wonder if the foreign ministry can comment on this?
Lin Jian: We notice relevant reports. China firmly opposes hacking and combats it in accordance with the law. China also firmly opposes spreading disinformation for political agenda. The so-called “statement” lacks evidence and confuses right and wrong. China strongly deplores and firmly opposes the U.S.’s wrong practice of slinging mud at China under the pretext of cybersecurity.
The U.S. has been widely condemned as the world’s largest “hacking empire” and “eavesdropping empire,” with a blemished record and solid evidence to prove it. China has grave concerns with the U.S. on cybersecurity. The cases previously exposed, including the National Security Agency attacking and pre-positioning capability to disrupt China’s National Time Service Center, have laid bare the U.S. administration’s dangerous practice of carrying out cyberattacks on China’s critical infrastructure and pre-positioning cyberattack capabilities for potential large-scale destructive operations in the future. The U.S. side, however, has never made a response on this issue.
When it comes to cyber issues, China and the U.S. are countries with big influence. The two sides should take the lead to safeguard and follow the international rules on cyberspace and jointly build a relationship in cyberspace featured by peace, stability and mutual respect. We urge the U.S. to quit double standards and political manipulation, take a responsible and constructive approach, and properly handle the risks on cybersecurity by equal-footed dialogue and consultation with China.
Bloomberg: We’re wondering, with relation to the flash floods in Nepal and landslides in Tibet, could you give a breakdown of the nationalities of the foreign nationals? We’re also wondering if China is planning to take any special action to deal with the crisis? The second question is on Chinese leader’s planned trip to the U.S. We’re wondering if the Chinese leader will go to the U.S., and what conditions need to be met to ensure the trip is happening?
Lin Jian: On your first question, affected by the disaster, the specific information is still under verification. The rescue efforts at the site are being carried out intensively and in an orderly manner.
On your second question, China and the U.S. are in communication regarding interactions between the two heads of state this year.
AFP: U.S. President Donald Trump declared a national emergency on Wednesday over foreign-made equipment inside the country’s electric grid, saying that the growing need for power has made the system a target for hostile governments. Can China provide a comment on this?
Lin Jian: China consistently opposes overstretching the concept of national security to go after foreign enterprises. It is hoped that the U.S. will provide a fair, just and non-discriminatory business environment for companies of all countries.
Reuters: About the mudslide in Gyirong County. We know that China is still verifying a lot of information about the foreigners, but is there any profile of the foreigners that we can have information about? Are they tourists? Are they workers who are working on projects along the border?
Lin Jian: According to the initial information we have, there are tourists and pilgrims among those unaccounted for. For more specifics, as I just mentioned, we are waiting for further verification, which is still ongoing due to conditions on the ground.