TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 24, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-24

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260924_12030731.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CGTN: We’ve noted that the fifth Global Digital Trade Expo (GDTE) opened in Hangzhou this morning under the theme “Meet the AI Future at GDTE.” Premier Li Qiang attended and addressed the launching ceremony. Can you share more information on that?
Guo Jiakun: This morning, the fifth GDTE opened in Hangzhou. Premier Li Qiang attended and addressed the launching ceremony. Leaders including Malaysian Prime Minister Anwar Ibrahim and Chairman of the Cabinet of Ministers of Kyrgyzstan Adylbek Aleshovich Kasymaliev attended and addressed the launching ceremony. Other leaders including Director General of the UN Industrial Development Organization Gerd Müller addressed the event via video link. Over 1,200 representatives from various sectors of close to 50 countries and regions and relevant international organizations attended the launching ceremony.
In response to questions such as where global trade is heading amid the trend of digitalization, what should the world do to capitalize on that trend, and what role can China play, Premier Li Qiang shared three observations. First, the need to grasp the new changes and new trends in global trade through digital trade. Flourishing digital trade provides new impetus and opportunities. The world economy faces broad prospects as well as new development gaps. Market matching becomes more convenient while at the same time, new trade barriers emerge. Global trade can accelerate growth through innovation, but without sufficient protection of relevant rules. Second, openness is essential to enable better development of global trade in the digital era. Amid economic globalization, the international community needs to engage in sincere coordination. We need to enhance digital connectivity for more free trade, bridge the digital divide for more universally beneficial trade, and improve digital governance for more orderly trade. Third, China will make greater contribution to global digital trade. We will keep expanding digital consumer demand and share market opportunities with countries around the world. We will continue to strengthen support for the digital industry and empower global digitalization. China’s technology advancement follows an open-source approach such as in the field of artificial intelligence to build “digital ladders” accessible to all countries. We will continue to improve the environment for digital development and offer China’s solutions to setting up well-rounded international rules.
Foreign leaders noted in their remarks that the the GDTE provides an invaluable platform for countries to have discussions on cooperation, jointly promote development and share outcomes. They appreciated China’s effort of sharing development outcomes and expressed hopes to work with China to bridge the digital divide, build a fair, safe and secure global digital trade order for good and for all, and provide new impetus for the sustainable development of the world.
The fifth GDTE coincides with the joyous occasion of the Mid-Autumn Festival. We welcome friends from the press to cover this event and feel the vibe of cutting-edge technology in Hangzhou.
Reuters: The U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said that the U.S. and China have reached a deal to extend the current trade truce all the way to January 10. China has so far not released any information about this. Has China agreed to this two-month extension?
Guo Jiakun: I’d refer you to competent authorities for any specifics regarding the China-U.S. consultations on economic and trade issues.
Bloomberg: The Iranian president said during a UN address that his country won’t allow freedom of navigation through the Strait of Hormuz while sanctions and a U.S. blockade remain in place. We’re wondering if the foreign ministry has any comment on his remarks.
Guo Jiakun: Protraction of the U.S.-Iran conflict does not serve the common interests of the parties concerned or the international community. It is vital for parties to choose peace, resolve disputes through dialogue and negotiation, and restore peace and tranquility to the Middle East and Gulf region at an early date.
The New York Times: Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said that China and the U.S. agreed to set up a formalized dialogue on AI that includes an incident line for communicating about AI safety incidents. Can MOFA confirm whether China has agreed to this dialogue and this notification system?
Guo Jiakun: The Chinese side has released a readout on the China-U.S. consultations on economic and trade issues, which you may refer to. For further information, I’d refer you to competent authorities.
NHK: It has been almost a month since Gyirong County was hit by the devastating mudslide. Could you provide the latest casualty figures for foreign nationals and an update on the rescue operations?
Guo Jiakun: The disaster left 261 foreign nationals unaccounted for. China has shared information with their countries’ embassies in Beijing.
Reuters: New Zealand’s cyber security agency said China was the country’s most persistent and capable state-backed cyber threat. What is the ministry’s comment of this?
Guo Jiakun: China opposes and resolutely fights hacker attacks in accordance with law, and opposes the dissemination of cyber security disinformation for political purposes. China urges the relevant agency in New Zealand to stop spreading lies and stoking discord, and instead do more to foster mutual understanding and trust between the two countries.
The New York Times: Are further trade talks planned between the United States and China on the sidelines of the APEC finance ministers’ meeting in Hong Kong in October, or in conjunction with the APEC summit in Shenzhen? Has China formally invited Mr. Trump to the Shenzhen summit?
Guo Jiakun: On questions related to the China-U.S. consultations on economic and trade issues, I’d refer you to competent authorities.
On your second question, China and the U.S. are in communication regarding interactions between the two presidents within the year.
********************************************************
During the Mid-Autumn Festival, there will be no regular press conference on September 25. The regular press conference will resume on September 28. During this period, questions can be submitted to the Spokesperson’s Office via fax, E-mail or WeChat.
We wish you and your family a happy Mid-Autumn Festival!