TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning’s Regular Press Conference on September 11, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260911_12020880.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
People’s Daily: The Chinese side has announced that President Xi Jinping will attend the 18th BRICS Summit. Could you share China’s expectations for this event?
Mao Ning: BRICS is the key platform for solidarity and cooperation among emerging markets and developing countries. Guided by the BRICS Spirit of openness, inclusiveness and win-win cooperation, BRICS countries have been committed to upholding multilateralism, defending fairness and justice, and pursuing common development ever since the grouping was formed. Today, BRICS has grown into a real force standing at the forefront of the Global South.
China sets great store by and actively participates in BRICS cooperation. President Xi will attend and address the upcoming summit, have in-depth exchanges with other leaders on major issues including the current international situation, the development of BRICS mechanisms, and deepening practical cooperation, and put forward China’s important initiatives and propositions, charting the course for the high-quality development of greater BRICS cooperation. China is ready to work with fellow BRICS countries for steady and sustained progress in greater BRICS cooperation to contribute to building a community with a shared future for humanity.
AFP: U.S. artificial intelligence firm Anthropic said in a report yesterday that it has shut down multiple operations that are believed to be linked to the Chinese government. The report said that the actors were using its chatbot Claude to gather information on various targets, including overseas religious communities, Uyghurs in Syria and Chinese diaspora groups. Does the foreign ministry have any comment on this?
Mao Ning: I’m not familiar with the specifics. China advocates AI for good. We firmly oppose attempts to throw mud at China by distorting facts.
Shenzhen TV: According to WIPO’s latest Global Innovation Index, China leads the innovation cluster count for a fourth consecutive year with 25 top 100 innovation clusters. Shenzhen-Hong Kong-Guangzhou tops the global rankings for a second consecutive year. Some say innovation has become a major driver of China’s development and the world should recognize the dividends and opportunities generated by China’s innovation. What’s your comment?
Mao Ning: I noticed the announced rankings. Innovation is key to China’s sustained economic performance and soaring industrial competitiveness. Chinese innovation creates opportunities for all countries. More and more foreign firms choose to do R&D and innovate in China and excel in global competition by tapping into China’s mega-market. For China, innovation is never about monopoly. We are committed to sharing innovation dividends with the world to thrive together.
The Hindu: Another question on President Xi’s visit to India for the BRICS Summit. This will also be the first meeting between President Xi and Prime Minister Modi since Tianjin last year. What are China’s expectations for this meeting between the two leaders and what role does Beijing see this meeting between the leaders is having on the ongoing normalization in relations?
Mao Ning: China and India are arranging for the bilateral meeting between President Xi and Prime Minister Modi. This will be the third year in a row for the two leaders to meet with each other, following their meetings in Kazan and Tianjin. China will work with India to act on the strategic guidance of the two leaders, handle the bilateral relations from a strategic height and long-term perspective, step up communication, enhance cooperation, properly handle differences, and be friends enjoying good-neighborliness and partners helping each other succeed.
PTI: Can you please share some details about President Xi’s delegation? How many members? There are reports that it is quite a large delegation, especially quite a number of heads of businesses are going to attend the BRICS Business Forum. Second question, this BRICS Summit is a bit different, as it is taking place amid two bitter conflicts, one in the Middle East and another is the Ukraine-Russia conflict. To stretch further, can you elaborate more on what China’s expectations as well as China’s priorities are as far as this particular BRICS Summit in Delhi?
Mao Ning: On your first question, there will be timely updates on President Xi Jinping’s trip to India for the BRICS Summit.
On your second question, China advocates a common, comprehensive, cooperative, and sustainable approach to security. We are committed to promoting the political settlement of hotspot issues through dialogue. We look forward to working with fellow BRICS countries to promote dialogue and negotiation to resolve differences and jointly safeguard regional and global peace and stability.
Reuters: The Taiwanese official Hsiao Bi-khim is in Italy. Does China have a response to this?
Mao Ning: China has lodged serious protests with Italy and the EU side on the “Taiwan independence” politicians’ attendance at the conference in Italy. The DPP authorities and individual politicians from Taiwan are making every attempt to grab attention and solicit external support for their separatist agenda under the pretext of “democracy” and “freedom.” Their moves are truly despicable and simply futile. Let me reiterate that there is but one China in the world, and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory. China firmly opposes official interactions of any form between China’s Taiwan region and countries having diplomatic ties with China. The one-China principle is a widely-recognized norm in international relations and a prevailing international consensus. It is also the political foundation of China-Italy relations and China-EU relations. We urge relevant parties to honor the one-China principle with real action.
CCTV: We noted that individual politicians from the U.S. and other Western countries have repeatedly expressed so-called “concern” over the “Hong Kong Alliance” case. Today, a Hong Kong court announced the sentence regarding the case. What is your comment?
Mao Ning: China has made clear its just position on the “Hong Kong Alliance” case. The rule of law is upheld in Hong Kong. The central government firmly supports the Hong Kong SAR in lawfully safeguarding national security and fighting activities endangering national security. Relevant parties need to earnestly respect China’s sovereignty and the rule of law in Hong Kong, stop making irresponsible remarks on the SAR’s handling of judicial cases, and stop interfering in Hong Kong’s judicial affairs, which are China’s internal affairs, in any form.
NHK: Could you please comment on China’s announcement to increase visa fees for Japanese citizens travelling to China?
Mao Ning: The Chinese Embassy in Japan has issued a notice. The adjustment was made based on the principle of reciprocity.
Reuters: The Kremlin’s Aide Yuri Ushakov said on Tuesday that the three heads of state of China, the U.S. and Russia may hold a trilateral meeting at the next APEC Forum in November. Can China confirm or comment on this?
Mao Ning: I don’t have any information to provide.
Bloomberg: South Korea is tightening its defenses against industrial espionage with the revised law taking effect this weekend. China is not explicitly mentioned in the revised law, but half of all detective cases involving leaks of sensitive technology to foreign entities last year involve China, according to the South Korean police. What’s the Chinese foreign ministry’s comment on these new rules?
Mao Ning: The Chinese government always asks Chinese enterprises to abide by international rules and relevant laws and regulations in conducting international cooperation. Countries are expected to protect normal investment and business operations and provide a fair, just and non-discriminatory business environment.