TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian’s Regular Press Conference on August 25, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-25

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260825_12010141.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Beijing Daily: Last week, Beijing hosted the 2026 World Robot Conference and the second World Humanoid Robot Games opened at the National Speed Skating Oval (the “Ice Ribbon”). Chinese humanoid robots broke multiple human records, including the 100-meter sprint and the men’s high jump, which sparked heated discussion worldwide. Meanwhile, some commentators suggest that the outlook for the industrial deployment and commercialization is uncertain. They also contend that China faces headwinds in sharing opportunities with the world, given the preventive and restrictive measures imposed by certain countries on its high-tech industries. What’s your comment?
Lin Jian: There has been extensive coverage of these events. Beyond the sporting events, what is more noteworthy is that humanoid robots are rapidly moving out of labs into real-world industries. They sort packages and assemble parts on factory floors, assist with elderly care and early childhood education in communities, and play ping-pong or fold clothes with dexterity. Behind these advances are OEMs, core part makers and algorithm developers working in concert, backed by China’s consistent policy support, robust innovation capabilities and diverse application scenarios.
At its core, China’s pursuit of new quality productive forces and technological innovation is about open cooperation and mutual benefit, not about setting up restrictions or seeking exclusive control. China stands ready to work with all other countries to continue dialogue and cooperation on artificial intelligence, embodied intelligence and other frontier areas, so that “innovation in China” and “intelligent manufacturing in China” can translate into a driving force for shared development, cooperation potential can be unlocked through technological connectivity, joint standard-setting and shared markets, and innovation dividends can be better delivered to humanity.
AFP: U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent on Monday laid out plans for the economic asphyxiation of Iran, expanding Washington’s secondary sanction threats and warning of dire consequences for countries that do not join the campaign. I wonder if China has a comment on this? (Similar question from CNBC)
Lin Jian: China has made clear on many occasions its firm opposition to illicit unilateral sanctions that have no basis in international law or the authorization of the UN Security Council. Economic warfare and maximum pressure provide no solution. On the contrary, they only serve to fuel tensions and lead to risk spillover, which will disrupt the global economic and financial order, and harm the legitimate rights and interests of other countries. The pressing task is to facilitate the deescalation of the situation and return to dialogue and negotiation as soon as possible. China will do everything necessary to firmly safeguard its rights and interests.
AFP: U.S. President Donald Trump’s administration on Monday moved to impose a fee of more than US$100,000 on employers hiring foreign workers through the highly skilled H-1B visa program. And given that around 12 percent of H-1B holders in 2025 were from China, do you have a comment on this?
Lin Jian: I have no comment on the U.S. visa policy.
Bloomberg: Following on the developments with the U.S. sanctions relating to Iran, we saw that there have been new sanctions on entities, individuals and vessels, including on some Chinese firms. Is China willing to change some of its behaviors and interactions with Iran to comply with U.S. demands? If so, what kind of actions is China considering to take?
Lin Jian: China’s cooperation with Iran is conducted within the framework of international law, thus should not be disrupted. China is closely following the developments, and will do everything necessary to firmly safeguard its rights and interests.
CNBC: The U.S. said that it would give countries a timeline on when to shut down the actions that it has identified. We’re wondering if China has received any sort of timeline or has any plans to address the China-based entities and individuals named in the Treasury announcement?
Lin Jian: We are closely following the developments, and will do everything necessary to firmly safeguard our rights and interests.