TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian’s Regular Press Conference on August 20, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-20

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260820_12007498.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China Daily: We notice that recent articles by economists including Dani Rodrik, professor at Harvard Kennedy School, and Michael R. Strain, director of economic policy studies at the American Enterprise Institute, have refuted the so-called “China shock” and “China squeeze” narratives. They believe that China’s trade policy is not “beggar-thy-neighbor” but rather “enriches-thy-neighbor”; beyond finished goods, China is also a major exporter of production machinery, components and intermediate goods, helping reduce the cost of industrialization for many countries; asking China to voluntarily give way to other countries at the expense of its domestic industry is an off-base economic narrative. What’s your comment on this?
Lin Jian: We noted that more and more people with insights in the world have expressed similar views. Facts have proven that China brings the world not “shocks” but opportunities; it does not “squeeze” but enables growth. The affordable quality products made in China has lowered the threshold of industrialization for developing countries. China’s open-source and universally beneficial innovation has enabled more countries to access affordable cutting-edge technologies. China’s stable and reliable supply has strengthened the resilience of the global industrial and supply chains, and supported Global South countries’ pursuit of modernization at a faster pace. In the face of growing uncertainties and instabilities in the world economy, China will continue to offer more dividends of its market, innovation and development to other countries through high-quality development.
Bloomberg: U.S. President Donald Trump has announced plans to inflict what he calls an “economic D-Day” against Iran, including threats to Iran’s trading partners. Given that China buys a large amount of Iran’s oil, for example, does the foreign ministry have comment on this economic warfare approach that Trump is threatening and how it might impact China? Even though China hasn’t been directly mentioned, I think the implication is a safe one to draw. What’s the foreign ministry’s comment on President Trump’s economic warfare?
Lin Jian: Sanctions and pressure tactics are not the solution. China calls on parties to act responsibly and stick to the political and diplomatic approach.
AFP: U.S. President Donald Trump said yesterday that he will meet North Korean leader later this year. According to a report by the Wall Street Journal, he is considering having that meeting at the APEC summit in November. I’d like to ask as the potential host of this meeting and as a country that has close ties, what is China’s comment on this?
Lin Jian: On the meeting between the DPRK and the U.S. you just mentioned, I don’t have any specific information. I will not comment on this.
Bloomberg: Regarding the meetings between Foreign Minister Wang Yi and his South Korean counterpart in South Korea. The Korean side is saying that Foreign Minister Wang Yi had said that China is actively considering a meeting between President Xi and President Lee on the sidelines of APEC in Shenzhen. I was wondering if you could confirm this meeting plan? If so, can you offer some more details on that?
Lin Jian: As the host country of this year’s APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting, China stands ready to take this opportunity to work with all sides, including the ROK, to build an Asia-Pacific community and inject new impetus for peace and development in the Asia Pacific and beyond. As to the specifics you mentioned, we will release information in due course.