TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian’s Regular Press Conference on August 21, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-21

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260821_12008335.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
At the invitation of Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Minister of Foreign Affairs Wang Yi, Minister of Foreign Affairs of Kuwait Sheikh Jarrah Jaber Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah will pay an official visit to China from August 23 to 24.
Shenzhen TV: On August 20, in the Bangladeshi presidential election, Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir from the ruling Bangladesh Nationalist Party was declared the winner and became the 23rd president of Bangladesh. What’s your comment? What’s China’s expectation on China-Bangladesh relations in the years to come?
Lin Jian: China congratulates Mr. Mirza Fakhrul Islam Alamgir on his election as the president of Bangladesh. China values its relations with Bangladesh, and stands ready to work with the Bangladeshi government to deliver on the important common understandings between the leaders, promote high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, expand exchanges and cooperation in various areas, and strive for new progress in building the China-Bangladesh community with a shared future in the new era.
Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting: Donald Trump has threatened to wage a full-fledged economic war on Iran. Many say the economic threat is aimed at making up for the failure of the war, in the military domain, that the U.S. and Israel waged against Iran. What’s your take on that?
Lin Jian: Sanctions and pressure tactics are not the solution. China calls on parties to act responsibly and stick to the political and diplomatic approach.
Phoenix TV: A cross-party group of Japanese lawmakers will reportedly visit China next week, noting that the status quo of Japan-China relations is in no one’s interest. They hope to play a role in improving the bilateral ties. What’s your comment?
Lin Jian: We notice that some visionary people from both Japan’s ruling and opposition parties are deeply concerned over the current state of China-Japan relations and wish to make an effort to restore the relations to the right track. We call on those running the government of Japan to take these concerns seriously, abide by the four political documents, and create the conditions necessary for normal exchanges between China and Japan with concrete actions.
Yonhap News Agency: Yesterday the DPRK fired over ten ballistic missiles toward waters to its east. This marks its 12th launch this year and the largest-scale launch in three years. Does China have any comment?
Lin Jian: We noted the reports and do not have any new comment.
Islamic Republic of Iran Broadcasting: Iran has endured years of sanctions imposed by the U.S. The Islamic Republic has either managed to bypass or find alternatives. And now it is said that Trump has no tangible card to enforce what he claims as “toughest sanctions.” What’s your viewpoint?
Lin Jian: China believes that military means, sanctions and pressure tactics are not the solution. On the contrary, they will only lead to escalation that serves no one’s interests. We call for efforts to solve disputes through dialogue and negotiation.
AFP: A follow-up on Iran, U.S. Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent urged China to join Washington in putting strong economic pressure on Iran. This was in an interview yesterday. Bessent noted that China has historically imported much of its energy from the Gulf. Does the foreign ministry have a response to these comments by Bessent?
Lin Jian: I answered a similar question yesterday. Let me reiterate, China opposes illicit unilateral sanctions that lack basis in international law and UN Security Council mandate. We call on parties to act responsibly and stick to the political and diplomatic approach.