TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 4, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-04

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260904_12016553.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CNA: Singapore’s foreign ministry has just released a statement stating that 52 Singaporeans were arrested in Guangxi following a law enforcement operation against suspected pyramid scheme activities. Can we get China’s comment on this? What specific charges are those who have been arrested facing? Could you also share more details on the case and when the investigations begin?
Guo Jiakun: China handles cases involving illegal or criminal activities by foreign nationals on Chinese soil in accordance with the law and ensures that their lawful rights are fully protected. I’d refer you to Chinese competent authorities for more information.
Asahi Shimbun: Nicaraguan lawmakers on Tuesday approved a constitutional reform restricting the participation of opposition politicians in elections. The amendment also extended the presidential term. What’s China’s comment on that? As China is growing its relations with Nicaragua, how does China assess the current state and future prospects of bilateral relations?
Guo Jiakun: China stays committed to the principle of non-interference in other countries’ internal affairs, and advocates that all countries’ right to follow development path that suits the national conditions should be respected. China will develop friendly ties with Nicaragua and other countries on the basis of mutual respect and win-win cooperation.
CNA: Could I ask a follow-up on your response? What coordination has there been with Singaporean authorities on the matter? What next steps are being taken? Could you also confirm if this is part of a wider investigation into pyramid schemes and if other nationalities are involved?
Guo Jiakun: I just shared information on the relevant question. For more specifics, I’d refer you to competent authorities.
Reuters: U.S. Trade Representative Jamieson Greer said on Thursday that the two countries expected to make some announcements on agriculture and non-tariff barriers related to agriculture to incentivize American sales into China during the anticipated presidential summit in Washington later this month. Does the foreign ministry have any comment on these remarks?
Guo Jiakun: On the specifics you mentioned, I have no information to share. China and the U.S. need to jointly deliver on the important common understandings between the two presidents, and maintain the steady growth momentum of China-U.S. economic and trade ties.
Bloomberg: The leaders of the Pacific island nations have criticized China’s recent missile test, saying they didn’t get adequate notice. Would the ministry like to respond to this? The Pacific island nations called for giving at least 24 hours notice of such missile testing in the future. I wonder if China will commit to giving at least 24 hours notice for similar missile tests in the future? (Similar question from AFP)
Guo Jiakun: China has on many occasions made clear its position on the test launch. China is committed to peaceful development and a national defense policy that is defensive in nature. We never engage in military expansion. China stands ready to work with South Pacific countries to contribute to peace, stability, development and prosperity of the South Pacific region.