TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 28, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-28

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260928_12032618.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CCTV: President Xi Jinping’s state visit to the U.S. last week drew close international attention. Can you share more information on this visit?
Guo Jiakun: From September 23 to 25, at the invitation of President Trump, President Xi Jinping paid a successful state visit to the U.S. The two presidents had in-depth exchange of views on major issues concerning China-U.S. relations and world peace and development. They reached a number of important common understandings on building “a constructive relationship of strategic stability on the basis of respect, fairness, and reciprocity.” Both sides agreed to support each other in successfully hosting the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and G20 Summit this year. China stands ready to work with the U.S. to deliver on the important common understandings between the two presidents and promote the steady, sound and sustainable development of China-U.S. relations.
Xinhua News Agency: A few days ago, China successfully hosted the High-level Dialogue on the Fifth Anniversary of the Global Development Initiative (GDI) at the UN headquarters in New York. President Xi Jinping sent a congratulatory letter to event. Vice President Han Zheng attended the event and delivered remarks. The event was also attended by many state leaders, ministers, and heads of international organizations. Could you tell us more about the high-level dialogue?
Guo Jiakun: On September 25, the High-level Dialogue on the Fifth Anniversary of the Global Development Initiative was successfully held at the UN headquarters in New York. More than 300 guests, including leaders and ministerial officials from member states of the Group of Friends of the GDI and heads of international organizations, attended the event. In his congratulatory letter, President Xi Jinping noted that the GDI was proposed to advance global development cooperation, reinvigorate the global development cause, and help accelerate the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Over the past five years, with the joint efforts of all parties, cooperation projects under the initiative have taken root and yielded outcomes in more than 120 countries. China stands ready to work with all parties to uphold a people-centered development philosophy and strive for more substantive progress in implementing the GDI.
Vice President Han Zheng attended the high-level dialogue. In his remarks, he elaborated on the great significance of the GDI and put forward four proposals: First, we should strengthen solidarity and coordination to fully implement the SDGs. China will continue to support the UN in strengthening the development pillar. Second, we should stay action-oriented and actively pursue development that benefits the people. China will train 10,000 engineers for developing countries over the next five years. Third, we should expand cooperation in priority areas and accelerate empowerment-driven development. China is ready to work with all parties to implement flagship projects under the GDI, including “Digital South” and “Clean Stove.” Fourth, we should strengthen partnerships to promote interconnected development. China will conduct extensive cooperation through relevant bilateral, trilateral and multilateral mechanisms to create synergy.
The substantive actions and fruitful outcomes of the GDI over the past five years speak volumes about China’s commitment to human progress and world harmony, as well as its efforts to offer China’s solutions and make China’s contributions to the common development for all countries. China stands ready to work with all parties to continuously turn the vision of the SDGs into tangible reality and to advance the building of a community with a shared future for humanity.
Anadolu Agency: One of the outcomes of the U.S.-China summit was that the two sides agreed on establishing an artificial intelligence dialogue. Do you think this bilateral mechanism will be a sufficient framework for global AI governance?
Guo Jiakun: China takes a constructive and responsible part in global AI governance and acts as a solution contributor to the process. China stands for upholding the UN’s role as the main channel and building a fair and equitable global AI governance system. We are willing to maintain communication and exchanges with the U.S. through inter-governmental dialogue on AI and other channels. This is both an important pathway towards AI for good and for all, and integral to the vision of a constructive China-U.S. relationship of strategic stability on the basis of respect, fairness, and reciprocity.
Prensa Latina: Today marks the 66th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Cuba and China. How does China view its relationship with Cuba nowadays amid turbulent international situations, even though both countries have always maintained strong bonds of friendship?
Guo Jiakun: Since China and Cuba established the diplomatic relations 66 years ago, the two countries have maintained a deep friendship from generation to generation. In recent years, under the strategic guidance of the two heads of state, sustained and steady progress has been made in building a community with a shared future between China and Cuba. No matter how the international landscape evolves, China will firmly support Cuba in exploring the socialist development path suited to its national conditions and in safeguarding national sovereignty and opposing external interference.
Yonhap News Agency: The Chinese side said in a readout that Chinese and U.S. presidents exchanged views on the Korean Peninsula issue in their meetings. Could you elaborate on that?
Guo Jiakun: During the visit, the two presidents exchanged views on major international and regional issues of mutual interest. China’s position and policy on the Korean Peninsula issue maintains consistency and continuity.
Bloomberg: Scott Bessent said that China came up with the idea, proposed a bigger deal between the two countries, and that the U.S. was willing to entertain that bigger deal or continue on with the Busan arrangement. Can you confirm that China did indeed offer or propose a bigger deal and maybe describe what that bigger deal might entertain?
Guo Jiakun: Competent authorities have shared information on the eighth round of China-U.S. economic and trade consultations. I’d refer you to them for more details.
Global Times: Several permanent missions to the UN have told the media that China is weighing whether to support UNCTAD Secretary-General and former Vice President of Costa Rica Rebeca Grynspan or Guyana’s Permanent Representative to the UN Carolyn Rodrigues-Birkett in the vote for the new UN Secretary-General. Can you confirm this? Which candidate is China considering supporting?
Guo Jiakun: The election of UN Secretary-General bears on the reform and development of the UN and the vital interests of member states. China supports the selection in accordance with the UN Charter of a new Secretary-General who observes the UN Charter, shows outstanding competence, is impartial and upright, and fulfills responsibilities with dedication. China will work with all relevant parties to participate in the election process in a responsible manner.
DPA: The German federal government commissioner for culture and the media said that on TikTok, Europe should “follow the American example,” it is dangerous to Europe’s democracy if other countries have the sensitive information, and TikTok’s European business should be “in European hands.” What is the foreign ministry’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: China’s position on TikTok is consistent and clear.