TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Lin Jian’s Regular Press Conference on August 28, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-28

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260828_12012299.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
At the invitation of the government of Zambia, President Xi Jinping’s Special Envoy and Vice Chairperson of the National Committee of the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference Xian Hui will attend the inauguration of President Hakainde Hichilema of Zambia in Lusaka on September 1.
CCTV: We notice that the rescue work in the mudslide-hit area in Gyirong County is still ongoing, could you share with us the latest developments?
Lin Jian: The Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee held a meeting on August 28 to deliberate, plan and deploy work on rescue and relief efforts after a devastating mudslide hit Gyirong County, Rikaze City of Xizang Autonomous Region. General Secretary Xi Jinping chaired the meeting.
At the beginning of the meeting, Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the CPC Central Committee, President of the People’s Republic of China and Chairman of the Central Military Commission, proposed that all participants stand for a moment of silence for those who lost their lives in the disaster.
It was noted in the meeting that the mudslide in Nepal had caused heavy casualties and left many missing at the Gyirong Port in Gyirong County. In the wake of the mudslide, the CPC Central Committee gave high priority to the disaster response, and General Secretary Xi Jinping immediately made important instructions, setting out clear requirements for rescue operations and emergency response. Entrusted by General Secretary Xi Jinping, Li Qiang, Member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Premier of the State Council, travelled to the disaster-hit area to visit those affected and the rescue teams, and provide on-site instruction on rescue and emergency response efforts. Zhang Guoqing, Member of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee and Vice Premier of the State Council, also rushed to the site to oversee the operations. Under the strong leadership of the CPC Central Committee and under the instruction of the State Council working group, the Xizang Autonomous Region, the Ministry of Emergency Management and other relevant departments, as well as other professional rescue forces, including firefighting and rescue teams and China Anneng Group, acted swiftly. The People’s Liberation Army and the armed police forces responded immediately to the call and arrived at the affected region in a timely manner. Rescue and relief efforts were carried out in an intensive and orderly manner, while the resettlement of affected people and follow-up work were launched and advanced across the board.
It was underlined in the meeting that the disaster happened in a high-altitude, cold region, where valleys are steep and the climate is highly volatile. There are still many glaciers and glacial lakes in the surrounding areas, with considerable geological hazard risks, posing enormous difficulties for rescue and relief efforts. All relevant parties must uphold the principle of putting people and human life first, and ensure that all work is carried out with firm and effective measures and sound and efficient approaches. Sound rescue plans must be formulated, and all-out efforts must be made to search for and rescue missing people from China and abroad. Joint consultations among multiple departments must be strengthened, monitoring and early-warning efforts must be enhanced, close attention must be paid to the stability of the barrier lakes and surrounding mountains, and effective measures must be taken to prevent secondary disasters. On-site personnel management must be strengthened to ensure safety throughout the entire rescue operation. Proper arrangements must be made for affected people, and careful and thorough efforts must be made in providing compensation, relief and other follow-up assistance. We will provide emergency assistance to disaster-hit areas in Nepal, and carry out international rescue cooperation .
We will earnestly act on the guiding principles of the meeting of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee, and make all-out efforts for rescue operations, emergency response, and other work related to foreign countries.
Reuters: I would like to ask a follow-up question concerning the landslide in Tibet. Are you able to update us today on a breakdown of the nationalities of the casualties? And in particular, are there Indian tourists or pilgrims who have been affected on the Tibetan side?
Lin Jian: As I said yesterday, relevant information is under further verification. We have informed relevant countries’ embassies in China and will stay in contact with them.
China Daily: Results of the Cook Islands parliamentary general election show that the Cook Islands Party led by incumbent Prime Minister Mark Brown won majority seats, securing another term for Mr. Brown. What is China’s comment and expectation for its relations with the Cook Islands?
Lin Jian: China congratulates Prime Minister Mark Brown on winning another term. China highly values its relations with the Cook Islands, and stands ready to work with the new government to further deepen political mutual trust, expand practical cooperation in various fields, and strive for greater progress of the comprehensive strategic partnership featuring mutual respect and common development for the benefit of both peoples.
The Paper: It is reported that, a civic group in Japan held an exhibition in Yokohama City on Japanese army’s wartime poison gas use. The exhibition aims to expose Japanese military’s wartime production and use of poison gas and its waging of gas warfare against China and Southeast Asian countries during WWII. According to the exhibition, after Japan’s defeat, some chemical weapons were left behind in China, continuing to cause harm to local people. Japanese visitors interviewed at the exhibition said that conducting chemical warfare was an atrocity committed by the Japanese military, and they never learned about this history at school; Japanese forces committed such evil acts, and it is a disgrace for the country. They also said that is why they want to erase it from history; This history must be made clear. We must become people capable of distinguishing right from wrong, they added. What’s your comment?
Lin Jian: During WWII, Japanese militarists developed and used chemical weapons on a large scale in China and other Asian countries, which constitutes a blatant violation of international law and has caused untold suffering on multiple countries. In China alone, there are more than 2,000 cases of Japanese forces using chemical weapons, causing more than 200,000 Chinese military and civilian casualties. After Japan’s defeat, in an attempt to cover up its crimes, a large number of chemical weapons were left behind in China, resulting in more than 2,000 casualties so far and posing a serious threat to Chinese people’s lives and the ecological environment.
Despite long-existing evidence of the crimes against humanity, Japanese right-wing forces distorted history and falsely claimed that the abandoned chemical weapons (ACWs) have gradually become “not harmful” and that “the legal statutes of limitations for liability have passed.” The Japanese government has demonstrated insufficient sincerity and given inadequate input in fulfilling its obligations of the Chemical Weapons Convention concerning the complete destruction of the ACWs, and the destruction process is seriously lagging behind schedule.
To remove the hazardous ACWs is Japanese government’s unshirkable historical responsibility and due obligation under international law. China urges the Japanese government to fulfill its responsibility under relevant convention, face up to the just call from visionary people in its own country and victim neighboring countries, comprehensively and faithfully fulfill the requirements of international convention and the MOU between the two governments, speed up the destruction process, and restore a safe living environment for the Chinese people at an early date.
AFP: On the U.S. and Iran, U.S. President Donald Trump yesterday hinted that his administration might be preparing sanctions targeting Chinese institutions over the links to Iran. This is part of U.S. efforts to isolate Iran. What is your response to Donald Trump?
Lin Jian: On the Iran situation, we always believe that dialogue and negotiation is the only viable way out. China opposes illicit unilateral sanctions. This position is consistent and clear.
The Hindu: Two questions on the mudslides. First, has there been any official determination on what actually caused this tragedy? And secondly, there were reports this morning that all 555 stranded tourists had been evacuated. I was just wondering if you had any information on whether there were tourists from India who have been evacuated and also if there are some who are still missing?
Lin Jian: We noted that experts and official institutions of China and Nepal have made preliminary assessment on the cause of the disaster. According to their analysis, the disaster has been triggered by a collapse of a high-altitude glacier in Nepal. For more details, please refer to the information released by competent authorities.
On your second question, I have made response just now. Relevant information is under further verification. We have informed relevant countries’ embassies in China and will stay in contact with them.