TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Mao Ning’s Regular Press Conference on September 7, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-07

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260907_12017650.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CGTN: We noted that a delegation from the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) visited China and inspected facilities for the disposal of Japan’s abandoned chemical weapons (ACWs). Could you please provide more information on the visit?
Mao Ning: From August 31 to September 5, the Director-General of the OPCW, the Chairperson of the Executive Council, as well as permanent representatives and senior diplomats from 12 countries to the OPCW, visited China upon invitation. During the visit, they travelled to Hunchun, Dunhua and Haerbaling in Jilin Province to inspect the excavation, recovery and destruction of Japan’s ACWs.
The delegation’s visit coincided with China’s annual commemoration of the victory of the Chinese People’s War of Resistance Against Japanese Aggression and the World Anti-Fascist War. Japan’s militarist aggression inflicted immense humanitarian catastrophes on China and left behind the menace of ACWs. Through the visit, the delegation gained a deeper understanding of the grave harm posed by Japan’s ACWs to the lives and property of the Chinese people and to the country’s ecological environment, and expressed support for the OPCW, in accordance with the Chemical Weapons Convention, in urging the Japanese side to earnestly fulfill its obligations by completely and thoroughly destroying its ACWs in China without further delay, so as to restore a safe habitat for the Chinese people at an early date and realize the noble goal of a world free of chemical weapons as envisaged by the Convention.
Reuters: We spoke to the Philippines’ defense secretary earlier today and he said China could use recently scaled-down U.S.-South Korean military exercises as an opportunity to assert itself in the Indo-Pacific region. Do you have anything to say to that comment?
Mao Ning: China is always committed to maintaining peace and stability in the Asia Pacific, and does not engage in major-country confrontation. We hope other regional countries will also play a positive role for peace and stability in the region.
China News Service: According to the Solomon Star, Taiwan increased its annual aid to Palau from US$18 million last year to US$25 million this year, apparently in an effort to secure political backing at the Pacific Islands Forum. The Taiwan authorities also allocated nearly US$281,000 in direct cash gifts for Palau’s former president, incumbent political figures, and individual lawmakers. The report commented that Taiwan’s taxpayers’ hard-earned money is not being spent on people’s livelihoods. What’s your comment?
Mao Ning: The report is yet another example of the Lai Ching-te authorities’ expensive dollar diplomacy using the hard-earned money of the people in Taiwan—a combination of corruption, fraudulence, bribery and power-for-money deals—to serve “Taiwan independence” separatism and their personal political agenda. For certain countries like Palau, having Taiwan as a “diplomatic ally” is not about delivering for the country and the people, but to line the pockets of the very few people who profit from it.
EFE: Venezuela says its agreements with China will be respected and Chinese joint ventures will continue operating. Has Caracas given Beijing specific assurances that Chinese oil interests will not be affected by the new U.S.-Venezuela agreement?
Mao Ning: Cooperation between China and Venezuela is under the protection of international law and laws of both countries. It has nothing to do with any third party and should not be disrupted by any third party. China’s lawful rights and interests in Venezuela must be protected.
AFP: The United States and China will hold talks on AI safety risks in coming weeks. This is according to a recent report by Reuters. Can the foreign ministry confirm these talks? They will reportedly take place in mid-September. What are Chinese expectations for these discussions?
Mao Ning: China and the U.S. maintain communication on AI.
DPA: The far-right Alternative for Germany (AfD) won the election in the eastern state of Saxony-Anhalt. In an interview with Phoenix TV, the AfD lead candidate Ulrich Siegmund said that for Germany’s better development in the future, Germany needs China from a long-term perspective. What’s China’s take on this election result? Will China enhance communication with the AfD?
Mao Ning: Regional elections in Germany are its domestic affair. China will not comment on that. China’s position on developing its relations with Germany is consistent.
The Paper: We’ve learned that a group of foreign journalists were allowed by China to gain access to the disaster-hit area in Gyirong for interviews. Can you share more details on that?
Mao Ning: The mudslide in Gyirong has drawn close attention from the international media, who hope to enter the area for reporting and interviews. With roads having just been cleared after non-stop repair work, China invited journalists from eight foreign media outlets, including the NBC, CNN, Reuters, RT and PTI, to enter the core area to learn about the impact of the disaster and progress in rescue, recovery and reconstruction. They also attended the group interview for journalists held by Xizang Autonomous Region. I believe you have seen the media reports from these outlets.
China will continue its all-out search and rescue efforts to deal with the aftermath. We will provide timely updates on the situation on the ground and rescue operations.