TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 21, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-21

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260921_12027763.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Xinhua News Agency: China just announced President Xi’s state visit to the United States. Could you please share more information about the schedule and China’s expectation for China-U.S. relations?
Guo Jiakun: At the invitation of President Donald J. Trump, President Xi Jinping will soon pay a state visit to the United States. During his visit, President Xi will have an in-depth exchange of views with President Trump on major issues concerning bilateral ties and world peace and development.
Head-of-state diplomacy plays an irreplaceable role in providing strategic guidance to China-U.S. relations. The exchange of visits by the two presidents within the span of half a year will mark a milestone of historic significance. China will work with the United States to enrich the dimensions of the China-U.S. constructive relationship of strategic stability, strengthen dialogue and cooperation, and properly manage differences, so as to deliver greater benefits to our two peoples and further contribute to world peace, stability and prosperity.
China News Agency: On the fifth anniversary of the Global Development Initiative (GDI) put forward by President Xi Jinping, could you update us on the implementation of the initiative over the past five years? Is China considering hosting events on the initiative on the sidelines of the 81st session of the UN General Assembly?
Guo Jiakun: Five years ago today, President Xi Jinping put forward the GDI at the general debate of the 76th session of the UN General Assembly. Focusing on development, a timeless theme for humanity, the initiative pools together international efforts to put development high on the global macro policy agenda, aims to expedite the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and has injected strong impetus into revitalizing global development. The initiative has received extensive recognition from the international community.
Over the past five years, under the guidance of President Xi Jinping and with the joint effort of various parties, fruitful outcomes have been made in implementing the GDI. The GDI has turned from a Chinese proposal into a global consensus, with people-centered development philosophy enjoying increasing popularity. The GDI has played a greater role in driving global development by real actions. Under the framework of the initiative, more than US$23 billion have been mobilized, and more than 2,000 cooperation projects have been carried out. In particular, practical cooperation under the framework of the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund has yielded fruitful outcomes in 70 plus countries, benefiting more than 40 million people. The GDI has developed better cooperation architecture across various sectors, laying the groundwork for advancing international development cooperation as well as realizing UN Sustainable Development Goals.
The general debate of the 81st session of the General Assembly starts tomorrow. On the sidelines of the general debate, China will host the High-Level Dialogue on the Fifth Anniversary of the Global Development Initiative at the UN headquarters in New York on September 25. We look forward to working with the broader UN membership to take stock of the achievements and useful experiences over the past five years, share development opportunities, explore cooperation on development, facilitate the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and build a community with a shared future for humanity.
The New York Times: A U.S. official said last week at a briefing that China has not fully resumed rare earth deliveries despite agreeing to do so at previous summits of the two leaders. What is China’s position?
Guo Jiakun: I’d refer you to competent authorities for the specific question. China is committed to keeping the global industrial and supply chains of critical minerals safe and stable. China and the United States should jointly implement the important common understandings reached between the two presidents and maintain the steady growth momentum of China-U.S. economic and trade ties.
Shenzhen TV: Russian Foreign Ministry spokesperson stated on September 18 that Russia had sent a note of protest to the Japanese side regarding the deployment of Typhon missile systems on Kyushu Island. The Kremlin considers the deployment unacceptable and demanded that the Japanese side fully recognize the results of WWII and abandon its remilitarization policy. China also recently sent a note to the Japanese side to express its concerns. Can you confirm that and share more details on that?
Guo Jiakun: The deployment of Typhon missile system, a strategic offensive weapon, is yet another example of Japan’s accelerated remilitarization. Such move will only push up the risk of military confrontation and arms race, threaten strategic balance and regional stability, and harm the legitimate security interests of neighboring countries. The international community is on high alert, with people from multiple Asian countries voicing their opposition to the deployment. China has also lodged strong protests against Japan through diplomatic channels on multiple occasions, and has recently sent a diplomatic note to Japan to reiterate China’s solemn position.
On the occasion of the 80th anniversary of the opening of the Tokyo Trials, China urges Japan to do serious soul-searching on its history of aggression, face up to the call from regional countries, and stop advancing its remilitarization agenda.
Reuters: The New Zealand Defence Force said today that two of its naval ships have transited the Taiwan Strait. The New Zealand PM called this a routine activity and said he was not expecting any backlash from China. Does China have any comment on this event?
Guo Jiakun: China’s position on foreign military vessels’ transit through the Taiwan Strait is consistent.
Beijing Youth Daily: According to preliminary results, the United Russia Party is leading in Russia’s State Duma elections held from September 18 to 20. What’s China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: China extends congratulations over the smooth conclusion of the Russian State Duma elections. The elections are a major event on Russia’s political calendar. The results of the elections represent the will of the Russian people. As a friendly neighbor and comprehensive strategic partner of coordination for a new era, China firmly supports the Russian people’s independent choice and stands ready to continue working with the Russian side to act on the important common understandings between the two presidents to make fresh progress and bring bilateral relations to new heights.
The New York Times: Is China amenable to an extension of the November 10 deadline for expanded restrictions on rare earth exports, and if so, for how long?
Guo Jiakun: I’d refer you to competent authorities for anything specific.
China Daily: It’s reported that a terrorist attack on a police facility in Pakistan’s Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province on September 18 caused heavy casualties. Does China have a comment?
Guo Jiakun: China strongly condemns this attack. We mourn for the loss of lives and extend sincere sympathies to the injured and the bereaved families.
Terrorism is a common enemy of humanity. Fighting terrorism is in the shared interests of all countries. China will continue its steadfast support for Pakistan’s counter-terrorism efforts. We call on all countries to join forces in tackling the threat of terrorism and safeguard global security and stability.
The New York Times: China’s restrictions this year on rare earth exports to Japan have affected American supply chains. Will this also be discussed at the summit later this week in Washington?
Guo Jiakun: I’ve just shared relevant information on the summit.
On the rare earth exports restriction you mentioned, in accordance with laws and regulations, China prohibits the export of all dual-use items to Japanese military users and for Japan’s military use, and any export that could help enhance Japan’s military capabilities. The aim is to thwart Japan’s remilitarization and attempt to possess nuclear weapons. China’s position of keeping the global industrial and supply chains of critical minerals safe and stable has not changed. All parties have the responsibility to play a constructive role to this end.
The New York Times: Do you have any further details regarding what progress may have been made in the conversations in New York City between Vice Premier He Lifeng and Treasury Secretary Bessent?
Guo Jiakun: The Chinese side has released a readout, which you may refer to. I have no further information to offer.
The New York Times: CNN reported at the end of last week that the U.S. military had been falsely responding to an AI report that a Chinese vessel was moving military components to the Middle East. Do you have any comment on this?
Guo Jiakun: I am not aware of what you mentioned.