TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Remarks on August 10, 2026

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260810_12001539.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Global Times: Some Philippine nationals in China were investigated and handled recently for suspicion of violating the law. Can you share more details? Can we see this as China’s response to the Philippines’ frequent detention of Chinese nationals?
Guo Jiakun: China’s national immigration authorities have made consistent effort to strengthen supervision of foreigners illegally entering, living or working in China and carried out special operations in accordance with the law. Actions have been taken in accordance with the law against over 100 Philippine nationals for illegally working or living in China. While carrying out the special operations, our immigration staff acted in a standard and civil manner and ensured the protection of the rights and interests of the foreign nationals concerned.
Bloomberg: India reportedly issued on August 7 the “standard names” of 27 locations in “Arunachal Pradesh.” India’s Ministry of Home Affairs said in a statement that identifying them formally on the map is aimed at “facilitating their accurate recognition and better awareness among the public at large.” What is China’s response?
Guo Jiakun: Zangnan region is China’s territory. China does not recognize the so-called “Arunachal Pradesh” illegally set up by India. India’s move of attempting to replace names long been used by China with its so-called “standard names” is illegal, null and void. Still less will it change the fact that Zangnan region belongs to China.
Prensa Latina: The United States has recently once again imposed sanctions on more Cuban companies and individuals, this time using military cooperation between China and Cuba, as well as between Cuba and Russia, as a pretext. What is China’s view of these new unilateral coercive measures and Washington’s attempt to interfere in normal cooperation between China and Cuba?
Guo Jiakun: China has made clear its position on this issue more than once. We urge the U.S. to lift its sanctions and blockade against Cuba as soon as possible and not to repeatedly sling mud at others. China-Cuba cooperation is above board. China will continue to firmly support Cuba in safeguarding national sovereignty and opposing external interference.