TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 29, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-29

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260929_12033413.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CCTV: Today marks the 54th anniversary of the issuance of the China-Japan Joint Statement. As China-Japan relations face grave difficulties, how does China see the historical significance of the four political documents between the two countries, including the joint statement, and how are they still relevant today?
Guo Jiakun: Today 54 years ago, the older generation of Chinese and Japanese leaders, with extraordinary political vision and courage, signed and issued the China-Japan Joint Statement, which marked the normalization of relations between the two countries. In the joint statement, Japan explicitly noted that it is “keenly conscious of” and “deeply reproaches itself” over its responsibility for war and that it “recognizes the Government of the People’s Republic of China as the sole legal Government of China.” The statement also notes that the Government of Japan “fully understands and respects” the position of the Chinese government that Taiwan is an inalienable part of the territory of the People’s Republic of China. The four political documents between China and Japan, including the joint statement, laid the political and legal foundation for China-Japan relations, and established the rules for properly settling major issues of principle, including history and Taiwan. There should be no distortion or regression, still less sabotage, regarding these principles.
Today, more than half a century later, China-Japan relations once again face a severe situation. The root cause is that the political foundation of the bilateral relations has been gravely undermined. The incumbent leader of Japan not only refuses to reflect on the history of aggression, but also claims that a contingency in Taiwan will constitute a “survival threatening” situation for Japan. This is a blatant challenge to China’s state sovereignty and against the aspiration demonstrated by the normalization of China-Japan relations and the political commitments Japan made to China. Japan keeps peddling the so-called “external threat” narrative, using it as a pretext to speed up remilitarization. The move poses a challenge to the postwar international order and threatens regional peace and stability.
History has repeatedly shown that only by staying true to the spirit of the four political documents can China and Japan keep the relationship on the right course. Just as Foreign Minister Wang Yi noted in the meeting yesterday with Takeshi Iwaya, head of the Japanese Association for the Promotion of International Trade, the pressing priority for Japan is to correct Japanese leader’s erroneous words and deeds on the Taiwan question. Japan should adopt a correct attitude on historical issues, and form an objective and rational perception on China. On this day of historic significance, we once again urge those running the government of Japan to seriously reflect on and correct their wrongdoings, and take real actions to return to the purpose and mission of the four political documents.
TASS: The spokesperson of Kremlin expressed that the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in Shenzhen will provide a good opportunity for a trilateral meeting of leaders of Russia, China and the U.S. What’s China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: As this year’s host of APEC, China stands ready to work with all parties for fruitful outcomes of the APEC “China Year,” and contribute to the economic growth in the Asia Pacific and beyond.
For your question, I have no information to share at the moment.
Shenzhen TV: It’s reported that the Philippine National Maritime Council on September 25 unveiled an updated maritime chart, which includes islands and reefs in China’s Nansha Qundao such as Zhongye Dao and Mahuan Dao. What’s China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: Zhongye Dao and Mahuan Dao are part of China’s Nansha Qundao and Chinese territory. China has indisputable sovereignty over Nansha Qundao and its adjacent waters. The scope of Philippine territory is defined by several international treaties. China’s Nanhai Zhudao, including Nansha Qundao, lie beyond that scope.
The Philippines’ illegal occupation of several islands and reefs in Nansha Qundao, designation of so-called “Kalayaan Island Group” beyond its own territory, and so-called “maritime chart,” which includes relevant islands and reefs of China’s Nansha Qundao, seriously violate China’s territorial sovereignty and the UN Charter and relevant international laws. Those actions are illegal, null and void.
China firmly opposes any action of the Philippines that harms China’s sovereignty and rights and interests. China will continue taking necessary measures to firmly defend its territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests in the South China Sea.