TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Remarks on October 3, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-03

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202610/t20261003_12035482.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Reuters: Russian news agencies are quoting President Vladimir Putin as saying that he believes his meeting with Chinese President Xi Jinping at the APEC summit in China next month will yield results. ls this meeting between the two leaders at the APEC summit in Shenzhen confirmed? What would China like to raise with Russia during the meeting?
Guo Jiakun: The strategic guidance provided by head-of-state diplomacy serves as the most important political underpinning for the steady and sustained advancement of China-Russia relations. China welcomes President Putin’s attendance at the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting in Shenzhen this November and stands ready to work with the Russian side for fruitful outcomes of the APEC “China Year.”
CCTV: The 63rd session of the United Nations Human Rights Council is being held in Geneva. We noticed that recently China delivered a joint statement on behalf of the Group of Friends of Global Governance in Geneva and like-minded countries, calling for improving the international human rights governance with the Global Governance Initiative and jointly building a global human rights governance system that is just, equitable, and inclusive. Can you share more details?
Guo Jiakun: On September 30, at the 63rd session of the United Nations Human Rights Council, China delivered a joint statement entitled “Improving International Human Rights Governance” on behalf of 94 countries, including members of the Group of Friends of Global Governance and like-minded countries. In the joint statement, China puts forward four proposals: First, adopting a people-centered approach. It is up to the people of each country to assess and improve their own human rights situation, so as to stay true to the original purpose of human rights governance. Second, upholding sovereign equality. All countries should conduct dialogue and cooperation on the basis of mutual respect. Third, upholding fairness and justice. It is important to advance human rights reform in a prudent manner, and support human rights institutions and experts in discharging their mandates objectively and impartially. Fourth, upholding the international rule of law. All parties should champion the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and oppose double standards or interference in the internal affairs of other countries under the pretext of human rights.
Since President Xi Jinping proposed the Global Governance Initiative more than a year ago, the initiative has received active response and support from nearly 160 countries and international organizations. The Group of Friends of Global Governance has continued to grow, with its members taking concrete actions to reform and improve the global governance system and delivering important early harvests. China will continue to implement the vision of building a community with a shared future for humanity and the four global initiatives proposed by President Xi Jinping. We will work with relevant parties for greater consensus and concerted efforts to champion multilateralism, improve international human rights governance, and build a more just and equitable global governance system.
TASS: Russian President Vladimir Putin said that it is possible to have a trilateral meeting with Chinese and U.S. leaders during the APEC Economic Leaders’ Meeting and it’s beneficial to exchange views and understand each other’s positions through the meeting. He also emphasized the need to understand what the parties would discuss at the meeting. What’s China’s comment? (Similar question from RIA Novosti)
Guo Jiakun: As the host for this year’s APEC, China stands ready to work with all parties for a fruitful APEC “China Year” and make new contributions to the economic growth of the Asia Pacific and beyond.
As for your specific question, I have no information to offer at the moment.
Associated Press: ls the Chinese government aware that Chinese companies are continuing to do business with both Ukrainian and Russian buyers of drones and drone components despite China’s export restrictions? What steps is Beijing taking to prevent Chinese companies from supplying military users? Ukrainian manufacturers told AP that Chinese export controls have pushed them to use intermediaries and route purchases through third countries. Is China taking steps to prevent its controls from being circumvented?
Guo Jiakun: I’d refer you to competent authorities for the specific questions. China always acts prudently and responsibly on the export of military products, and exercises strict control over dual-use items in accordance with China’s laws and regulations on export control and due international obligations. China opposes using civilian drones for military purposes. All parties should play a constructive role in facilitating a political settlement of the Ukraine crisis, instead of making groundless speculation and ill-intentioned association.
Reuters: Our question is about Starbucks opening stores in Xinjiang and the response from the U.S. Select Committee on China, which attacked Starbucks for the decision, which they called “morally bankrupt” because of what they allege to be genocide against Uyghurs by the Chinese government. Does MOFA have any comment? (Similar question from AFP)
Guo Jiakun: The so-called “genocide” in Xinjiang is a blatant lie. This U.S. group is known for vilifying China out of political motives and has absolutely no credibility to speak of.
Today’s Xinjiang enjoys social stability, economic prosperity, ethnic unity, and religious harmony. As for foreign businesses, China will continue to expand high-standard opening up and provide more opportunities for them to invest and thrive in China.
RIA Novosti: Director of the Moscow Zoo said that the zoo is engaged in ongoing talks with China hoping to keep giant panda Katyusha in Russia. Would China consider the extension for Katyusha?
Guo Jiakun: In Russia, giant pandas from China have been warmly welcomed and much adored, which has deepened mutual understanding and friendship between the two peoples. We stand ready to continue working with Russia and other international partners on the conservation of endangered species like the giant panda and biodiversity, thereby contributing even more to global ecological conservation. For anything more specific, I’d refer you to China’s competent authorities.