TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Regular Press Conference on September 14, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-14

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202609/t20260914_12021997.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
CGTN: President Xi Jinping just concluded his trip to New Delhi for the 18th BRICS Summit. Can you share more details? China will take over the BRICS chairship next year. What role does China hope to play in advancing BRICS cooperation?
Guo Jiakun: From September 12 to 13, President Xi Jinping attended the 18th BRICS Summit in India upon invitation. He attended Session I and Session II of the summit, delivered important statements, and had discussions with leaders of other BRICS member states to chart the course for a new chapter of development and cooperation.
This year marks the 20th anniversary of BRICS cooperation. President Xi Jinping summarized the course of BRICS development with three phrases: self-reliance and self-strengthening, standing together through wind and rain, and fruitful outcomes. He pointed out that over the past two decades, BRICS has been growing with strong vigor and vitality, and become the most influential cooperation platform in today’s world for emerging markets and developing countries. President Xi Jinping stressed that BRICS must stand firmly on the right side of history, and strive to be a pioneer in advancing innovation-driven development, a pioneer in upholding peace and stability, a pioneer in facilitating mutual learning between civilizations, and a pioneer in reforming and improving global governance. Global South countries should jointly defend the rule of law in international affairs, hold high the banner of multilateralism, stay committed to a people-centered development philosophy, jointly advance security governance, steer the international order in a direction that is more just and equitable, and work together to build a community with a shared future for humanity.
President Xi Jinping pointed out that to accomplish great things and achieve major progress, the foundation of greater BRICS cooperation must be cemented. During the summit, President Xi Jinping proposed the open source and inclusive AI initiative, the digital industry cooperation initiative, and the intelligent manufacturing cooperation initiative. He announced multiple practical cooperation measures, in particular, China will be a pioneer in establishing a BRICS AI open source community, establish a BRICS digital ecosystem cloud platform, and launch a BRICS youth exchange program for scientific and technological innovation. China is committed to supporting other Global South countries in improving capacity and benefiting equally from emerging technologies so as to thrive together.
China will take over the BRICS chairship next year, and host the 19th BRICS Summit. The Chinese side will build consensus and work with all parties to plan for the future. Together, we will usher in the third golden decade of BRICS cooperation, and open up a bright prospect of shared prosperity and progress.
Xinhua News Agency: On September 12, President Xi Jinping met with Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi while attending the 18th BRICS Summit in New Delhi, India, extending their annual meeting arrangement into the third year. Could you talk about the new consensus the two leaders reached on China-India relations during this meeting?
Guo Jiakun: Indeed, this was President Xi and Prime Minister Modi’s third meeting in three years. The meeting in New Delhi marks the two leaders “reaffirmation” of the growth of China-India ties after guiding the bilateral relations from starting afresh in Kazan to making further improvements in Tianjin. The most important consensus reached is that China and India should be partners.
As President Xi noted, China and India have different national realities. We should draw on each other’s strengths, support each other, help each other succeed, and develop together. To promote the steady and sustained development of China-India relations, both sides need to calibrate the direction with an objective and rational strategic perception, help each other succeed in the spirit of win-win cooperation, remove irritants with the political wisdom of mutual respect and mutual understanding, and contribute to a better world with open and inclusive multilateral coordination. Prime Minister Modi said that India has an independent foreign policy, developing relations with China is not affected by any third party and that it will not allow any force to engage in anti-China activities on its territory. China values Prime Minister Modi’s statements.
The two leaders agreed that as the most populous countries in the world and major members of the Global South, China and India should focus on development, which is the biggest common denominator, strengthen friendly exchanges and mutually beneficial cooperation, and improve public perception of the bilateral relations. The two sides should also address each other’s economic and trade concerns in a balanced way and promote the sound and steady development of economic and trade relations. The two sides agreed to support each other in chairing BRICS, promote cooperation in the Global South, help build a multipolar world, and serve as forces for progress and stability in the volatile world. At the same time, the two leaders agree to properly handle the disputes and disagreements between China and India to jointly safeguard peace and tranquility in the border area.
The improvement and development of China-India relations is not only welcomed by the 2.8 billion people of the two countries, but also the right thing to do to enhance the cooperation in the Global South. As the two leaders have charted the course for the future development of the bilateral ties, China will work with India to implement the important common understandings reached between the two leaders, make the cooperation list longer, deepen people-to-people exchanges, have closer collaboration on multilateral occasions, make continued efforts to improve and grow our ties, and render firm support to each other’s development and revitalization, so that we can contribution to the peace and prosperity in the region and beyond.
Reuters: The Wall Street Journal reported over the weekend that Iran acquired satellite images of the U.S. base in Jordan from Chinese entities before an attack that killed three U.S. troops there in July. Does the foreign ministry have any comment on The Wall Street Journal’s report?
Guo Jiakun: China always strictly fulfills its due international obligations. We oppose exploiting the situation to throw mud at China.
Phoenix TV: It is reported that Yemen’s Houthis recently attacked four cities in southern Saudi Arabia, injuring more than 70 civilians and damaging multiple energy facilities and other civilian infrastructure. The Houthis said that they had also come under attack and suffered casualties. What’s China’s comment?
Guo Jiakun: China is deeply concerned about the casualties of innocent civilians and the damage to energy facilities and other civilian infrastructure caused by recent escalation in Yemen and the Red Sea. Attacks against civilian infrastructure that bears on people’s livelihoods are unacceptable. Increasing turmoil in the region serves no one’s interest. The sovereignty and security of all countries should be respected, and the only viable way forward is to resolve disputes through political and diplomatic means. China calls on the relevant parties to exercise restraint, ease tensions through communication and dialogue and work toward deescalation as soon as possible.
Reuters: Dario Amodei, Sam Altman and Elon Musk all over the weekend called on AI companies to slow down frontier development, with Amodei arguing a Chinese advantage in AI would pose U.S. national security risks. Does the foreign ministry have any comment?
Guo Jiakun: AI is a consequential technology for the wellbeing of all humanity. All parties should jointly promote the open and inclusive development of AI for good and for all. Fear-mongering, confrontation and vicious competition will only hamper efforts toward sound global AI governance, which serves no one’s interest.
Antara: At the recent BRICS Summit, Indonesian President Prabowo Subianto called on BRICS member states to pursue joint industrialization, noting that each member already constitutes an important part of global supply chains. He argued that closer industrial cooperation would enable member states to generate greater added value. Does the Ministry have any comment on President Prabowo’s proposal?
Guo Jiakun: For many years, BRICS has been actively promoting cooperation on industrialization, evidenced by the establishment of BRICS Partnership on New Industrial Revolution Innovation Center and BRICS Center for Industrial Competences, and marked by a great number of practical outcomes. China will strengthen technological cooperation with BRICS countries, deepen industrial alignment, carry out capacity-building projects, and achieve more sustainable development featured by higher quality and greater resilience.
China News Service: It’s reported that the opening ceremony of the 2026 National Cybersecurity Awareness Week was held in Jinan, Shandong Province today. The theme of the week is “Cybersecurity for the People, Cybersecurity by the People – Safeguarding the Smart Era with Cybersecurity.” Can you share China’s thinking for holding the event? What China believes countries should do to jointly safeguard cybersecurity in the age of intelligence?
Guo Jiakun: The internet connects households across the world. A peaceful, safe and secure, open and cooperative cyberspace is of great significance for all countries in the world. Since 2014, China has held the annual National Cybersecurity Awareness Week to improve public awareness and capability on cybersecurity, foster a healthy and positive environment in cyberspace, and provide China’s useful experience for global governance in cyberspace.
As we speak, emerging technologies, notably AI, is profoundly reshaping the cyberspace. As a firm defender of cybersecurity, China has officially put AI under the supervision of national cybersecurity laws and regulations, and has been improving relevant institutional guidelines and ethical norms. We stand ready to continue working with the rest of the world to actively respond to cybersecurity risks and challenges in the intelligence age, promote the building of a community with a shared future in cyberspace, and enable the internet to better benefit the people of all countries.
China Daily: It’s reported that some Panamanian lawmakers recently set up a so-called “Panama-Taiwan parliamentary exchange group.” U.S. lawmakers attended the launch of the group via video link. Regarding this, Panamanian President José Raúl Mulino stated that the Panamanian government reiterates that “foreign relations are directed by the Executive,” and engagements of the parliamentarians with Taiwan “do not mean that the Executive endorses them.” Do you have any comment on that?
Guo Jiakun: There is but one China in the world and Taiwan is an inalienable part of China’s territory. China firmly opposes official interactions and engagements of any form between the Taiwan authorities and countries having diplomatic ties with China, and does not allow interference in China’s internal affairs by any external forces. We urge those few politicians to see the real picture. To cross the line on the Taiwan question will lead to serious consequences.
The establishment of this so-called “parliamentary exchange group” seriously violates the one-China principle upheld by Panama. We noted the statement of the Panamanian government and hopes that Panama will honor its commitment to the one-China principle with real actions to uphold the political foundation of China-Panama relations. China urges the U.S. to abide by the one-China principle and the three China-U.S. joint communiqués, stop sending the wrong message to “Taiwan independence” separatist forces, and stop disrupting and sabotaging China-Panama relations.
Reuters: Are you able to provide an update on the status of the search mission for missing foreign nationals from the flood in Tibet and Nepal? Whether the Chinese government is in touch with Apple or other smart device makers to help locate those unaccounted for?
Guo Jiakun: We have informed relevant countries’ embassies in China of the procedures for DNA information collection from relatives of the missing foreign nationals. Once the remains of any foreign national are found and after the identity is confirmed, the relevant embassy will be contacted to communicate follow-up arrangements. The Xizang Autonomous Region authorities have opened a hotline for families of the missing foreign nationals and will provide them with timely assistance.
The Paper: Not long ago, the MFA hosted events under the theme “Explore People-Centered Cities: China’s Governance, Global Engagement” in Shanghai and Jiangsu, as part of the program of the “Beyond the Capital” diplomatic tour. In the first half of this year, the MFA also hosted events under the theme “Set Sail for the 15th Five-Year Plan: China’s Growth, World’s Opportunity.” Could you share more details and China’s consideration of launching these two new programs?
Guo Jiakun: The “Beyond the Capital” diplomatic tour, a flagship event which enables diplomatic service to empower development across the country, provides a hands-on opportunity for foreign diplomats in China to have a deeper understanding of China. The events you mentioned are exactly the upgraded version of the program, with a focus on development and governance.
The trip to the Pearl River Delta helps explore the vitality of development and cooperation opportunities unleashed by the 15th Five-Year Plan. The trip to the Yangtze River Delta centers on urban governance and offers an opportunity to witness how China puts into practice its people-centered development philosophy. Participating diplomatic envoys noted that, the events serve not only as an opportunity to better understand China, but also a platform for governance experience sharing and mutual learning among countries with different cultural traditions and in different stage of development. We welcome more diplomatic envoys to join the events.
DPA: Russian news agency TASS reported that Kremlin spokesperson Dmitry Peskov told reporters in New Delhi that Indian and Chinese leaders asked detailed questions about a settlement in Ukraine and actively offered their good offices to help find a solution. Can the foreign ministry confirm this? How would China help find a solution in the ongoing war in Ukraine?
Guo Jiakun: China’s position on the Ukraine crisis has been consistent and clear. We always believe that dialogue and negotiation is the only viable way out of the crisis, and support all efforts for peace.