TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Remarks on October 6, 2026

PUBLISHED:
2026-10-06

SOURCE:
MFA English

CATEGORY:
Diplomacy

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202610/t20261006_12035790.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
Reuters: U.S. officials believe the likelihood of China “invading” Taiwan before 2028 is getting increasingly low. What’s the foreign ministry’s response?
Guo Jiakun: The Taiwan question is China’s internal affair. Resolving the Taiwan question is a matter for the Chinese ourselves that brooks no external interference. The U.S. side needs to implement the important common understandings reached at the meeting between the two presidents, abide by the one-China principle and the three China-U.S. joint communiqués, and act prudently on the Taiwan question.
Reuters: Taiwan recently received two F-16V fighter jets purchased from the United States and plans to receive another 64 within the year. What is the foreign ministry’s response? (Also raised by AFP)
Guo Jiakun: China’s position is clear. We remain firmly opposed to U.S. arms sales to China’s Taiwan region.
Reuters: U.S. authorities arrested a California woman on Sunday and accused her of spying on a son of Taiwan’s Lai Ching-te at the behest of Chinese officials, the FBI said. Does the foreign ministry have any comment? (Also raised by AFP, NBC and The Wall Street Journal)
Guo Jiakun: I am not familiar with what you mentioned. China opposes vilifying China by peddling the so-called “Chinese spy” narrative.
AFP: Could the foreign ministry comment on accusations from the Philippines that China’s military and coast guard on Sunday harassed Filipino government aircraft and boats in two areas of the South China Sea?
Guo Jiakun: China has sovereignty over Huangyan Dao and Nansha Qundao, including Zhongye Dao and Tiexian Jiao, as well as their adjacent waters, and has sovereign rights and jurisdiction over relevant waters. The scope of Philippine territory is defined by several international treaties. China’s Huangyan Dao and Nansha Qundao lie beyond that scope. Over the past few days, Philippine aircraft and vessels have intruded into airspace and waters under China’s jurisdiction without China’s permission, disrupting China’s normal law enforcement operations. This is a serious violation of China’s sovereignty and jurisdiction, and a deliberate attempt to undermine peace and stability in the South China Sea. It’s fully legitimate and justified for the Chinese military and coast guard to respond by taking measures in accordance with law.
China firmly opposes any actions by the Philippines that undermine China’s sovereignty and rights and interests, and will continue to take necessary measures to firmly safeguard its territorial sovereignty and maritime rights and interests in the South China Sea. The Philippine side should immediately stop its infringement and provocations.
Reuters: U.S. officials told Reuters that they believe Iran has obtained satellite-based positioning intelligence and possibly other positioning data from China. What’s China’s response?
Guo Jiakun: China strictly fulfills its due international obligations. We oppose using the conflict as a pretext to frame and smear China.
Financial Times: It is reported that the UK is looking to impose higher tariffs on Chinese NEV exports. What is your comment?
Guo Jiakun: I’d refer you to competent authorities for the specifics. Let me stress that economic and trade relations are about leveraging respective comparative advantages to achieve mutual benefit. China’s EV industry offers competitive options for global consumers, including those in the UK, contributes to green and low-carbon transition, and constitutes high-quality production capacity in high market demand.
NBC: An employee of a Russian anti-plague institute in the remote Siberian region of Irkutsk has reportedly died of a suspected pneumonic plague infection. The U.S. State Department said that they are monitoring the situation closely. Are Russian authorities reaching out to Chinese authorities and experts on possible cooperation to deal with this problem?
Guo Jiakun: China and Russia maintain close exchanges and cooperation on the prevention and control of infectious diseases, including plague.
Bloomberg: It’s reported that Germany and France sent a letter to European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen urging the European Union to adopt new powers that would enable the bloc to cut off access to its single market if other nations destabilize trade relations. The letter also calls for an instrument that would force Europe to reduce various supply chain dependencies on foreign countries. While the letter does not specifically mention China, the EU is currently exploring ways to rebalance its trade relationship with the country. What’s the foreign ministry’s comments on this latest call? How would this affect EU Trade Commissioner Maros Sefcovic’s China visit later this week?
Guo Jiakun: Between China and the EU, the industrial and supply chains are highly integrated and mutually dependent, and our economic and trade relations are mutually beneficial in nature. It is hoped that the EU will work with China in the same direction and resolve each other’s concerns through dialogue and consultation, so that the two parties can jointly keep the global industrial and supply chains stable and unimpeded and promote the sound and steady development of China-EU economic and trade relations. As for your specific question, I’d refer you to China’s competent authorities.