TITLE:
Foreign Ministry Spokesperson Guo Jiakun’s Remarks on August 14, 2026

SOURCE:
PRC Ministry of Foreign Affairs

URL:
https://www.mfa.gov.cn/eng/xw/fyrbt/lxjzh/202608/t20260814_12004508.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
China Daily: The U.S. State Department spokesperson issued a press statement on August 8 local time, saying that the United States rejects Chinaâs attempts to set up the national nature reserve at Huangyan Dao and deny Filipino fishermen access to their âtraditional fishing groundâ as reflected in the 2016 Arbitral Award. What is Chinaâs response?
Guo Jiakun: Huangyan Dao has always been Chinaâs territory. It is within Chinaâs sovereign rights to establish and administer the Huangyan Dao national nature reserve. The U.S. is in no position to point fingers, and the âSouth China Sea arbitral award,â which is illegal, null and void, provides no solid ground for the U.S. to speak for the Philippines. China urges the U.S. to stop playing up tensions and instigating confrontation in the South China Sea, stop citing the illegal and invalid âaward,â and stop using maritime issues as a pretext to smear China.
CCTV: The third APEC Senior Officialsâ Meeting (SOM) will be held in Dalian from August 17 to 28. With the meeting approaching, could you brief us on the preparations for the meeting? What does China hope to achieve through the meeting?
Guo Jiakun: As the host of APEC in 2026, China will hold the third APEC Senior Officialsâ Meeting and related meetings in Dalian, Liaoning Province, from August 17 to 28. This meeting will be the largest as to the number of participants and events. It will strive to achieve more outcomes across various fields and mechanisms under the APEC framework, laying the groundwork for the leadersâ meeting in November.
There will be close to 130 meetings and events, including the third Senior Officialsâ Plenary Meeting as well as SOMâs committee meetings, working group meetings, workshops and other related meetings, covering various fields such as trade, transportation, food, customs, technology, energy, health, disaster reduction and anti-corruption. It is expected to have the participation of more than 2,300 representatives from member economies of APEC, the APEC Secretariat, the APEC Business Advisory Council and the Pacific Economic Cooperation Council.
The host city Dalian serves as a window to learn about Chinaâs opening up in Northeast China. It boasts a robust industrial foundation, sound business environment, geographical advantages, beautiful scenery and liveable environment. We welcome friends from the media to actively report on the third Senior Officialsâ Meeting and related meetings, and continue following and supporting the APEC âChina Year.â
Yomiuri Shimbun: Russian President Vladimir Putin on Thursday visited Etorofu Island (known as Iturup in Russia), one of four islands known as the Northern Territories in Japan (the southern Kuril Islands in Russia). Japan claims the Northern Territories as its own. Whatâs Chinaâs comment on the visit?
Guo Jiakun: China maintains that the outcomes of the victory of the World Anti-Fascist War should be earnestly respected and upheld. China urges the Japanese side to abide by the postwar international order enshrined in the Cairo Declaration, the Potsdam Proclamation and other international legal instruments.
Bloomberg: The Philippinesâ Defense Secretary Gilberto Teodoro Jr. has accused China of using the action against Filipinos to pressure the Philippines over its law enforcement operations against Chinese nationals. Teodoro said the actions against 100 Filipinos are âsimple extortion and blackmail.â Does Foreign Ministry have a comment on this?
Guo Jiakun: Foreign nationals in China should abide by Chinese laws and regulations. Chinaâsâimmigration authorities perform their duty in accordance with the law and protect the lawful rights and interests of the personnel concerned. The actions do not target any specific country.
Itâs learned that it was exactly this defense secretary who personally led the armed forces to seize and detain Chinese nationals lawfully working in the Philippines. This personâs consistent attacks and smears against China harm not only the bilateral relations. It is the interests of the Philippines and all its people that will bear the brunt.