TITLE:
上合组织持续拓展深化防务安全合作

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-04

SOURCE:
81 CN

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://www.81.cn/yw_208727/16483580.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
上合组织持续拓展深化防务安全合作
SCO to Further Broaden and Deepen Defense and Security Cooperation
9月4日下午，国防部新闻发言人蒋斌大校就近期涉军问题发布消息。
记者：近日，国家主席习近平出席在吉尔吉斯斯坦举行的2026年上海合作组织峰会。今年恰逢上合组织成立25周年，请问上合组织成员国将如何进一步加强防务安全领域合作？
Question: President Xi Jinping recently attended the 2026 SCO Summit in Kyrgyzstan. As the SCO celebrates its 25th founding anniversary this year, how will the SCO member states further strengthen defense and security cooperation?
蒋斌：习主席近日出席上海合作组织成员国元首理事会第二十六次会议并发表重要讲话指出，中方愿同各方践行共同、综合、合作、可持续的安全观，将上海合作组织打造成践行全球安全倡议的重要平台。安全是发展的基石，和平是繁荣的源泉。上合组织成员国高度重视防务安全合作，多次组织国防部长会议、军队总参谋长会议，举行“和平使命”反恐联演、“和平号角”军乐节，开展军事医学、军事交通、军事翻译等领域专业交流，举办高级军官研修班、中青年军官交流、“上合组织+”青年智库沙龙等活动。在国际形势变乱交织之际，上合组织发挥稳定之锚作用，在维护地区安全稳定、应对各类威胁挑战方面取得重要成就。
Jiang Bin: President Xi recently attended the 26th Meeting of the Council of Heads of State of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO) and delivered important remarks, noting that China stands ready to work with all parties to act on the vision of common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security, and make the SCO an important platform for implementing the Global Security Initiative. Security is the bedrock of development, and peace the source of prosperity. SCO member states attach great importance to defense and security cooperation. We have convened the SCO Defense Ministers' Meetings and the Meetings of the Chiefs of General Staff of SCO Militaries on multiple occasions, conducted Peace Mission joint counter-terrorism exercises and Peace Horn military tattoo, carried out professional exchanges in such fields as military medicine, military transportation and military translation, and hosted seminars for senior military officers, the SCO Junior-and-Middle-Level Officers' Exchange, and the SCO Plus Young Scholars' Salon. Amid a changing and volatile international landscape, the SCO has served as an anchor of stability and achieved important results in safeguarding regional security and stability and responding to various threats and challenges.
站在上合组织25周年新起点，中国军队愿与上合组织成员国军队共同努力，坚守上合初心，弘扬“上海精神”，落实好上合峰会最新达成的重要共识和《比什凯克宣言》，持续拓展深化防务安全合作，为服务构建人类命运共同体贡献力量。
Standing at the new starting point of the SCO's 25th anniversary, the Chinese military is ready to work with the militaries of SCO member states to adhere to the original aspiration of the SCO, carry forward the Shanghai Spirit, implement the important consensus newly reached at the SCO summit and the Bishkek Declaration, further broaden and deepen defense and security cooperation, and contribute to building a community with a shared future for humanity.