TITLE:
北京香山论坛每一次对话倾听都为和平增添一分希望

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-24

SOURCE:
81 CN

CATEGORY:
Military

URL:
http://www.81.cn/yw_208727/16488883.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
北京香山论坛每一次对话倾听都为和平增添一分希望
The Beijing Xiangshan Forum: Every Single Dialogue Adds One More Ounce of Hope to Peace
9月24日下午，国防部举行例行记者会，国防部新闻发言人蒋斌大校答记者问。
记者：第十三届北京香山论坛上，各国代表都不约而同地提到，能将当前全球多场冲突的各方代表汇聚起来各抒己见，只有中国和北京香山论坛能做到这一点，请问对此有何评论？
Question: At the 13th Beijing Xiangshan Forum, many delegates mentioned that only China and the Xiangshan Forum can bring together representatives from conflicting parties to share their respective views. What is your comment?
蒋斌：北京香山论坛经过20年的发展，已成长为举世瞩目的国际安全防务对话平台。今年论坛再次汇聚各国嘉宾，取得显著成效。一是以开放包容推动平等对话。论坛不设前提、不划阵营，坚持国家不论大小强弱，都可以拿到麦克风，表达安全诉求，阐释安全理念；论坛像一张“谁都能坐下的桌子”，受到各国代表的点赞。二是以中国理念凝聚全球共识。中方倡导的人类命运共同体理念和四大全球倡议，超越阵营对抗、零和博弈的旧思维，为破解全球安全赤字、完善全球安全治理提供了新的思维范式和解决路径。三是以靶向设题回应国际关切。紧跟全球安全形势演变，议题设置精准对接各国普遍关注的传统安全痛点与人工智能军事运用、太空安全治理等新兴领域安全挑战，为全人类的共同安全，实实在在推动解决今天的问题、化解明天的风险。四是以求同存异促进和平稳定。论坛尊重各国安全利益与立场差异，热点冲突相关方同台交流、坦诚沟通成为一大特色。在这里，理性克制代替了剑拔弩张，每一次对话倾听都为实现和平增添一分希望。
Jiang Bin: After 20 years of development, the Beijing Xiangshan Forum has become a premium international platform for security and defense dialogue. This year, the forum once again convened guests from different countries and delivered remarkable outcomes. First, it promoted equal dialogues with an open and inclusive spirit. There is no precondition for participation and no exclusive geopolitical membership. All countries, regardless of their size and strength, can have the microphone to voice their security concerns and articulate their security visions. The forum is widely commended by delegates as "a table where every party can find a seat". Second, it pooled global consensus with China's visions. The vision of building a community with a shared future for humanity and the four major global initiatives advocated by China transcend the outdated mindset of bloc confrontation and zero-sum games, and offer a new paradigm and pathway for reducing security deficit and improving security governance worldwide. Third, it addressed international concerns with well-targeted subjects. Keeping pace with the evolving global security landscape, the forum's agenda covered both traditional security challenges and those in emerging areas including the military application of artificial intelligence and outer space security governance. It contributed in concrete ways to resolving today's problems and defusing tomorrow's risks for the sake of common security of humanity. Fourth, it advanced peace and stability by seeking common ground while respecting differences. The forum advocates respecting the security interests and different positions of all countries. What makes it different is that it can bring together representatives from conflicting parties and let them have candid conversations. Here, reason and restraint rise above tension and hostility. Every single dialogue adds one more ounce of hope to peace.
20年是一个里程碑，也是一个新起点。我们将继续秉持平等、开放、包容、互鉴精神，将香山论坛越办越好，与各方一道，为世界和平与全人类的安全福祉作出更大贡献。
The 20th anniversary is a milestone and a new starting point. Following the spirit of equality, openness, inclusiveness and mutual learning, we will make the forum a greater success, and join hands with all parties to make greater contributions to world peace and the well-being of humanity.