TITLE:
MOFCOM Spokesperson’s Remarks on U.S. Adding Chinese Companies to So-called Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act Entity List

PUBLISHED:
2026-08-07

SOURCE:
MOFCOM English

CATEGORY:
Economic

URL:
https://english.mofcom.gov.cn/News/SpokesmansRemarks/art/2026/art_b3fb78c235814f95abd8b7bccea4f92b.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
MOFCOM BJT
Q: On July 31, ET, the U.S. Department of Homeland Security announced the addition of over 40 Chinese entities to the entity list under the so-called Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act (UFLPA). What is MOFCOM’s comment on this?
A: We have noted the relevant development. The U.S. action has no basis in fact, as the U.S. has continued to use so-called “human rights” and “forced labor” as pretexts for arbitrarily imposing unilateral sanctions on Chinese companies under its domestic laws, which constitutes a typical act of economic coercion. The move has seriously undermined the legitimate rights and interests of the companies concerned and severely disrupted the stability of global industrial and supply chains.
Notably, the Chinese and U.S. economic and trade lead persons held a video call on July 30, during which they conducted candid, in-depth, and constructive exchanges on maintaining stable bilateral economic and trade relations. Merely one day later, the U.S. introduced the egregious measure that harms China’s interests, seriously deviating from the consensus reached by the two heads of state. China strongly condemns and firmly opposes the action.
China has consistently opposed forced labor. Xinjiang enjoys social harmony and stability and sustains economic development, with people living and working in peace and contentment. There is simply no such thing as so-called “forced labor” in Xinjiang in any form. China urges the U.S. to immediately stop its attacks and smears against Xinjiang, stop manipulating the so-called “forced labor” issue, and stop its unreasonable suppression of Chinese companies. China will take necessary measures to resolutely safeguard the legitimate rights and interests of its enterprises. (Released on August 1)