TITLE:
Q: During this summer vacation, inbound consumption saw a new surge. According to MOFCOM is monitoring, what are the highlights of foreign nationals’ consumption in China? (MOFCOM Regular Press Conference September 3, 2026)

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-11 14:31:00

SOURCE:
MOFCOM English

CATEGORY:
Economic

URL:
https://english.mofcom.gov.cn/News/PressConference/art/2026/art_fa0bc4d4383040ab83c9a1bd6829b6b7.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
MOFCOM BJT
A: This summer, “travelling in China” and “shopping in China” remained highly popular, with more and more foreign tourists coming to China to buy quality products, savor fine cuisine, enjoy scenic views, and watch performances, experiencing the unique charm of “shopping in China.” In the first seven months of this year, people from overseas spent RMB 263.6 billion in China, up by 27.8% year-on-year, and the number of overseas visitors applying for departure tax refunds increased by more than three times year-on-year. Inbound consumption during this summer vacation features the following highlights:
First, escaping the summer heat in China become a trend, boosting consumer spending. Persistent heatwaves in Europe and other regions led to a significant increase in tourists coming to China to escape the heat, with “China Cool” trending on overseas social media platforms. Platform data show that among the top 20 source countries and regions for inbound tourists this summer, European countries accounted for 30%, with orders increasing by 275% year-on-year and ticket orders growing by over 20 times. Some “hidden gem” cities were particularly favored, with the number of foreign tourists flying to Yining in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region and Nyingchi in Xizang Autonomous Region increasing by more than six times year-on-year.
Second, Chinese trendy brands gained popularity, offering more consumption choices. An increasing number of Chinese trendy brands and smart products made their way onto foreign tourists’ “must-buy” lists. For example, “Shanghai Customization” focuses on product design and fabrication tailored to consumers’ individual needs, covering clothing, jewelry, watches, eyewear and other fields. Many foreign tourists came specifically for custom-made products, accounting for over 50% of the consumers of such services. Foldable phones, AI glasses, smart bracelets and other smart products became new favorites among foreign tourists.
Third, services continued to improve, offering better consumption scenarios. Since last year, MOFCOM, in collaboration with the Ministry of Finance, has carried out efforts to build an international consumption environment, supporting 15 pilot cities in enriching high-quality consumption supply and improving service levels, so that foreign tourists can enjoy their travels and shop to their hearts’ content. Shenzhen has created a number of new international consumption landmarks, improved multilingual signage, and optimized payment services.
Fourth, departure tax refunds were made more efficient, delivering a better consumption experience. On July 1, the small-amount random inspection system and paperless processing under the departure tax refund policy 2.0 were officially implemented, making tax refunds more convenient for overseas travelers and customs clearance smoother. Local governments have also actively introduced innovative measures. Beijing’s first online departure tax refund store has been launched, and cities such as Guangzhou, Chongqing, and Chengdu have also established a number of “refund on the spot” centralized refund points.
Going forward, we will work with all relevant departments and local authorities to further implement the relevant policies, optimize the inbound consumption environment, and ensure that foreign tourists enjoy better consumption experience and a greater sense of gain in China.