TITLE:
Q: Recently, MOFCOM and eight other departments jointly issued the Opinions on Promoting the High-Quality Development of Bonded Aviation Maintenance. Could you brief us on this document? What steps will be taken to promote the high-quality ...

PUBLISHED:
2026-09-09 13:45:00

SOURCE:
MOFCOM English

CATEGORY:
Economic

URL:
https://english.mofcom.gov.cn/News/PressConference/art/2026/art_e159b294b2c641b4b743295f75174598.html

ARTICLE TEXT:
MOFCOM BJT
A: In recent years, China’s civil aviation transport industry has developed rapidly, with the size of its fleet ranking second in the world, and the demand for maintenance and repair of civil aircraft and components has been growing. Supporting bonded aviation maintenance is conducive to ensuring the safe and stable operation of civil aviation transport. To date, there are 37 bonded aviation maintenance projects nationwide. They account for 12% of the total number of projects in the bonded maintenance industry but contribute 85% of the total import and export value, reaching USD 60 billion in 2025.
As you just mentioned, MOFCOM and eight other departments recently jointly issued the Opinions on Promoting the High-Quality Development of Bonded Aviation Maintenance, which includes 13 policy measures in six areas. The main innovations are as follows. First, in terms of scope of application, the catalogue of products eligible for bonded aviation maintenance has been further expanded, and locational restrictions have been removed. Second, in terms of fiscal and tax policies, bonded maintenance is eligible for export tax rebates (and exemptions), and repaired products are allowed to be sold domestically in accordance with relevant state regulations. Third, in terms of customs supervision, a series of facilitation measures have been introduced, including allowing some maintenance processes to be outsourced to other enterprises. These measures can effectively reduce the costs of aviation maintenance enterprises, improve service efficiency, and enhance their overall competitiveness.
Going forward, MOFCOM will work with relevant departments and local authorities to take concrete measures to fully implement these policies and measures and bring bonded aviation maintenance to a new level.